# Basics of fuzzing - GynvaelEN Livestream 17

**Channel:** GynvaelEN
**Video ID:** BrDujogxYSk

## Transcript

Okay, let's see if this works at all  So my microphone is acting funny and if  For some reason you stop hearing me then that means I need to reconnect my microphone  Hopefully it works now. Yes, I can hear myself. So yeah officially welcome to another live stream and  This evening will be doing basic fuzzing and so basically if you've done fuzzing if you know  So if you've written a  Fuzzer like a modern fuzzer when you will be really really bored today if you haven't drew it in a fuzzer  Where then probably stick around since you might?  I don't know learn something I guess  Okay, so  Today's moderator is disconnected disconnected. Yeah, this is nicknames  So on IRC or YouTube chat if you're present if you want to ask any question then message this guy and he will  Pass me the question  Partically and I will try to answer it now  I guess let's do a very usual round of updates. It will be really fast though since I didn't prepare too much and  Then we can get to fuzzing  okay, then here we go  This is disconnected  website it's  partially in Polish, partially in English and  He needs to update it  But yeah, totally check it out. Thank you disconnected for being here and helping me with today's stream  But from that as usual if you don't know live overflow yet you totally should subscribe to his channel since he is doing this really awesome videos on  CTF security and whatnot and I like especially you like to recommend this one. It's on pen testing  It was really awesome and the last thing I wanted to actually shout out to Jay  Bosamia he  Been written down he written down some notes security notes from  Both my life's dreams and also other stuff. So if you go to get his good help to security notes  Repository you will find them for example, there are some notes on  Advanced formats drink exploitation advanced taken to quotes for some reason, but yeah, I also took them to quotes. So yeah  Which was  Life stream. I don't know two weeks ago or three weeks ago. So I'm in the web and rice condition and so on and so on  and actually I'm going to like copy paste you the link on all of  Our chats being kiosy and YouTube chat. So totally Jay. Thank you for doing that. That's really awesome and  Please continue. I'm sure like a lot of people will find it really interesting  Cool. So let's start about fuzzing. So well currently I guess if you think about  Fuzzers you think about American fuzzy lop, which is a kind of a rabbit  Let's look for it  It's this kind of a rabbit. Yeah, and at the same time it's also a fuzzer written by El Camtalf  Actually, if you know Polish you probably know that last week El Camtalf visited my Polish stream and we chated about  AFL quite a lot  Well, I guess AFL is kind of like a rather big project. So we only touched on like the basics of it  What being said since there was never any fuzzing video in English. I decided to focus on that and  I did one before in Polish when we had one with El Camtalf last week  So I decided you know, but maybe well, I decided a couple of people pinged me after last week and said hey do a fuzzing  Streaming is like seriously the one. So yeah, I'm here. I am  Basically, what we'll be talking about today is like it's basics really basics if you don't fuzzing  This might not be new to you  First of all, what is fuzzing and second of all how a basic how do you write a basic fuzzer?  You don't usually need to write a basic fuzzer, but if you know how it's written then you probably can use it better  It's quite important to actually like fully know how a fuzzer work  Works to be able to use it in a proper way and this was my thing and  First I might touch on how modern fuzzers work and by modern fuzzers. I mean AFL  I might also depending on the time and I don't know how much it will take let's say the stream will be like one hour and 15 minute  so yeah  Then I might touch on like how  What's the next step after AFL basically on fuzzing but what would be only like chat basically  Cool, so um, I guess I should mention my experience with fuzzing so while I sometimes use afl  Very a couple of actually fuzzers which are you know open source and free to use afl being one of them  I'm actually going to copy paste the link again to the chats because it's it's a really awesome project  When there's something called hong fuz  Created by robots fiansky  It's on google slash hong fuz and on github. I'm so going to copy paste the link  It's a little different than afl and was created with a little different  Some different ideas in mind  I might touch on what are the strong points of hong fuz and afl later on  Because I will be basically using them as examples apart from that well um  I  Sometimes use them, but actually I'm doing my work at at Google. We also created another fuzzer with with euro with my toe she would check  You if you're following like Google security block. I've actually been following it like a couple of  Um, maybe not here some but some time ago  Then you might know this post  ffmpg google fuzzing  Yeah  This is probably not it  Um, this is it. This is it. Yeah  Yeah, it's like from 2014 that's where we  Basically like published our um some results in our father  Oh, we fast ffmpg project and we found like enough bugs that were at thousand fixes and if you actually like go to ffmpg  Um, like github now  If you and well not github it to get if you grip through the log there is about  One thousand five hundred fixes for bugs that was were discovered by our father  Um, so that's quite a lot of the difference between our father and  afl or hong quaz is that to use our father you  You should start with like five hundred CPU cores, but having two thousand or a little more CPU cores  It's best because the father was designed actually to run with quite a lot of course in mind  So it's a it designed in a little different way when when you know hong quaz or afl  Were both hong quaz and afl are really fast on like one machine and well our father basically used that scale approach  Cool, so um, what's the father so okay  There's already a question  Okay, so the question is that I play with around the equation group exploits  I didn't I did to read out all about it. I didn't have time to look at it yet. I might  Touch on it on the next stream  What's the best method to crack exor or xor cypher determining the length of the key and stuff like that  I want to make some practice for ctfs and I um do not want to depend on exor to only  Basically, that's a good question. I think  But it's a subject basically for another stream  it's  It's quite an interesting question. There are methods to do it  But it's like an analysis to take me 15 minutes  So let's let's maybe if you think this is a good topic for the next stream when put it in the comments under this video  When it's on youtube and then it might be a like if people vote on it. It might be a good next topic actually  Um because it's so readable  Cool and another question. How did you analyze one thousand plus bugs?  So one important thing to mention here is that you know  It wasn't fixed or discovered during like one week. It was like a year-long process even more  And actually the ffmpg maintainers did all the analysis and fixing work  We basically just provided the crashes and events since they know the project  They did the analysis and the fixes so could us to them versus especially in the blog posts  Which I showed there is where is like a list of maintainers who did all the fixes  Um  And the end we decided you know we probably don't have really time or various sources to analyze this amount of crashes  So yeah, that's why we relied on them  And it's actually something I usually do if I discover a lot of bugs since  You know the maintainer of a project or the developer of a project does know the project really well  And it it will just go faster for them to do the fixing  Okay, so back to the original  Thing which original topic which is how does the father work or what is the father basically um, let's see if I can draw on  This yes, I can draw on it  perfect, so  Vidya is that you take some input data or  Vidya is that you have a library or a program which takes input data. So let's assume this is the program right  I guess you can see my drawing my drawing is good done with a mouse again  I probably should really hook up a pen tablet like a graphical pen tablet  Yeah, and it takes some input and the input is structured in a in a way  Like for example, but let's assume it's a PDF file. It might be anything might like a BMP file and video file  Or it might not be a file at all. It might be I don't know just some stream of data, right?  But it does take some input and the input is in in some format and it it doesn't matter if it gives any output what matters is that  And this is interesting for you from a security perspective  There needs to be some kind of a like security boundary between these things for example this process is actually running on the server  And you are able to upload the file from your browser, right now  Um, of course if you're doing this for testing like stability testing and anti-crushing testing basically even the security boundary doesn't have to be here  But let's assume for but there is because well, you know, this is a stream about security in the end  So what what the father does is basically it takes such a file  Um, and it finds you know the file is basically consists of a sort of bytes, right or bits whatever  And so it has some data in the file and it picks  It does mutations and by mutations, but easiest mutator is pick a random byte like for example vis byte  Which is here somewhere, right and change it for example increase it by one or like exorbit with something or  Just change it to random value. Let's say it puts like  42 here because why not, right? It picks a random value and then it saves such a file  server as like this file was inputted here to the mutator and it gets  and ever  And ever file right which is called a mutated file or a mutated sample  And then you take this mutated sample and you feed it feed it back to the application and the application processes it  But you know you corrupted the data basically or you changed the data in an somewhat unpredictable way  So the application might either you know process the data correctly if the mutation was like benign or  it might  Crash because the mutation wasn't benign and it actually hit a case in the application where the application would assume something  But um this this changed value would actually trigger an edge case which would trigger a crash in the application  Or the application might just detect it but oh, this is not correct data and the application might say you like error  I'm sorry. I'm not going to process this file. This is still fine  So but in phasing what you're looking or you you are looking for you are looking for the cases where the application usually crashes  Or where you are able to detect whatever error condition you're looking for  Crushing is the most obvious  Way to detect an error condition because well something crashed  Now this isn't the only way and  they're  currently like you use  Sometimes you compile a target. This is you know a target again  I'm the application that we are phasing you compile it if you're able to with something called address sanitizer or memory sanitizer or any other  sanitizer thing which  basically allows you to  Do it it actually includes detection additional detection in  binary itself and it is able to detect things which would not normally crash the application but are  perceived as security problems or error conditions and example being  If you overflow overrun a buffer right with one bite usually the application will not crash  But that still might be a security issue or if you like overflow the buffer  But you write something which is benign and doesn't crash the application and the application just continues  Then again having address sanitizer gives you detection of such conditions as well  How address sanitizer works is actually a good topic for another stream. So  maybe later and  The third basically case where fuzzers are useful or to detect errors is you if you have another application which  Has also processes with the data the input data of the same kind when you just feed the same data into both application  Applications and see if the results are the same and this sometimes  This usually doesn't you know give you security errors, but  difference in interpretation of the data and both  libraries, but for example, there were bugs found in  high-precision number like very long integer  multiplication addition and basically math libraries like you took two math libraries and you were able to find  differences in  In the way in the results and if there's a difference in results between like two math libraries  That means that one math library is incorrect is wrong  So yeah, I don't remember who exactly did it, but some cool bugs were found this way  Okay, so yeah, so this is basically how a fuzzer works now if the application crashes the fuzzing system  Usually has a debugger around it. So this process is being debugged. It doesn't have to be debugged it  There are other ways to know if the application crashed for example a core file was generated and dumped into this directory  Or you just looked at the exit code and the exit code tell told you that oh it got actually crashed  therefore you are able to  run it again with the same input and  therefore attach at the bugger and be able to analyze the crash now  You attach the debugger basically to get a report and the report is basically you know just a  state of application mean like  When did it crash? What was what were the register values at what point in the program like you know  EIP or RIP registers? What was in memory? What was the cold stack?  These are like the basics basically in a report and knowing that you are able to take both the sample the report  Triarsheet and analyze it and basically see if this is a security vulnerability or maybe it's like a  DOS condition, you know just a crash a simple crash, which is benign as in it that it's a secure  Sorry, it's a stability issue still, but it's benign as a security vulnerability. It's not really just a crash. Yeah, you cannot exploit it  Cool, so yeah, so again the father is the mutator the  Detection system around it and also  In the end, it's the thing which basically repeats it repeats this process meaning it takes a file  mutates it feeds it to the application next file mutate  For a repeat with and repeat repeat repeat basically like you know rinse repeat  And so a father is supposed to do this in an automatic fashion a lot of times per second for example  I don't know AFL goes to  several thousand per second you if not more and  When you just keep it running for a week and you  You explore the process state the state of  Well, the space of all the possible states of the application and hopes to randomly somewhat randomly  Find find states in the application which actually cause a crash and our security problem like problematic from a security perspective  So if you serve a basics, please pardon my drawing and I guess we can code a father that's a really simple father  And after I'm done. I'll show you. I'll tell you what the difference between like an old school father  Which I just described and the new fuzzers  I see there are a couple of questions. So I'll answer them quickly  Have you ever fast have sorry have you ever used fuzzers to solve CTF challenges?  Well, not to solve them, but yes, we sometimes do use fuzzers for detecting like finding a bug  In pound challenges, it's quite useful  It's you don't use it always sometimes it doesn't make sense  But sometimes it's just easier to go through the application and analyze it and sometimes yes, sometimes that totally works  Especially that like the offer of honk fuzz which I did mention is in Dragon Sector  What helps a lot because he's he does  Know how to use it the best way and it sometimes is really useful  Um, what are the best methods to modify input files?  Is it just changing random bytes or are there any specific algorithms for that?  I'll get to mutations in a I don't know in 20 minutes. Let's say hopefully  um  Why are you so generous am I I don't know um, thank you. I guess  How do you determine what areas of a program would be best to fuzz first?  That's an excellent question. So let's touch on on this before I get to actually actual coding so it's like this  You know applications are huge right especially think about like acrobat reader like it's a pdf parser  Which is huge right and there's a lot of code for just printing the pdf some code for displaying the windows and what not right now  Um when you're fuzzing  You usually want to focus on a single  Input type well that wasn't necessarily true  You might want to fuzz like a couple of different input types at the same time  But you want ideally you want to take the target and carve the piece out  Which is responsible for parsing and processing the input type you want to focus on  And this is important because you know if you focus on it then  And basically  You don't have to execute like everything around it right and executing our stuff is slow. It's slowing down your fuzz  You don't want to do it  So um, you basically have to figure out which uh, which thing is parsing or processing data and  Usually when you're doing fuzzing you do focus only on parsing data and processing the data you ignore all the other stuff  So basically we have an application and you know, there is a like a security boundary somewhere when figure out what  What application is through what input format does it process?  How do you supply this input format is it actually feasible for an attacker to supply some  I don't know sent an email with this  malicious  Explore it in this given format and then if they really would run it would that be a problem  um  So and that this is what you focus on so it's applications and application specific question  It's easier usually with libraries because you know when you find libraries you  Well, they're libraries which are dedicated to processing some  Input types for example the zlib library  Does the compression on the zlib stream right? So this is a good target  Then you have like png lib png which basically also uses the zlib for the compression but it also parses the  png format so pink format whatever you want to call it or if you find like image magic  You know what image magic processes a lot of different image formats. So  So you basically grab some input like image formats and then use that as the input samples  So the input samples are usually called the corpus by the way, so it's  In the old school phasing it was good to  To grab like as many different files of the given type as possible because but in the end gave you the best results  um  There are like very methods to actually make the corpus better, but I guess it's  You sometimes still use it, but it  Um  I can't use genetic phasing kind of made this and a little obsolete in my thought, but it's still sometimes used  Um, but I'll get to that later. I guess I hope I kind of answered your question  And okay, let's get to coding  So I'm going to code my father and Python because why not I guess I usually do that  Well, that's not what's absolutely not true  Uh, but usually by saying usually I do that  I mean when I did my published stream on fuzzers. I actually did code it in Python as well  I usually code my fuzzers in c++ which uh, I'm not saying it's a good choice. It's just what what we use  Um  Okay, so  What do you start with? Well, I guess we also should have  A vulnerable application, but I'm going to just find it on my  To grab on from my publish stream and I'm going to show it to you  Let's see what is it  So this is the vulnerable applications like really really easy  So what's happening here is  Well, as you can see not a lot and um  That may be the method quickly explained it opens a file usually when you  Um, when you fuzz an application it opens a file sometimes it takes input through a socket like TCP  Socket and sometimes it's from like standard input, but usually it's a file  So it opens a file when it reads some header the header are basically 32 bit ends which are the  With and height of some let's assume image  And then it allocates and well the obvious bug is here right is like an integer overflow if this is a 32 bit  binary let's assume it is  Then there is no checking if the malagre turns null because you know the memory allocation might fail  But it's not here so that's a second back  And then it tries to read here into the data  And it does this by well line by line or like scan line by scan line row by row however you want to interpret it  And the end after doing this it doesn't do anything else  So if this would actually overflow like this equation here  This like multiplication here would overflow then this would crash the program at some point  And this is actually a security bag since this is the red line by line you might  This might be like you might go to a condition where you overwrite stuff on heap  But a fuzzer does not exploit the bug a fuzzer finds a bug and fuzzers are  We're usually usually for so-called low hanging fruits or easy bags which  Which are easy to spot easy to miss I guess also but  I'm  It's a it won't work for the complicated logic bugs usually it just like grabs the low hanging fruit  So the the bags which are the easiest to find that was okay  Okay, so this is our application. I'm going to compile it  I'm going to do it for four windows today or four windows that's the four windows because why not  And I have to do I sorry, I have a like 52 bit  Um to do be instead I'll try to switch to it  It's maybe use this one instead  Okay, yeah, let's touch really bad  Uh target that's 64 bit or is it no it's ice that's okay that's 42 bit target so this is okay gdb is my gdb  I don't know if it's 42 bit or 64 bit that doesn't matter  We might use gdb later as the the bugger of choice for the for analyzing the crash  So yeah, I guess I'm going to use  Hmm sub process for basically  Calling the target apart from that I'm going to use  I don't know now that's probably all there is I do need some input file  So I'm going to create an input file. Yeah, let me create an input file which has  Some or actually never I don't have I wanted to say oh I have actually some input files from  My poly strings, but that's not true. So I'm going to create a file which is  um  Basically, it can  The conforms this format, right? So  um, let's do it like this import struct  and the  First there's an integer to integers and the integers should contain the with high. So let's say it's 10 for 10  and then it's  Some bytes. So let's just do  This many times for letter a  Okay, and now I'm just going to write it to a file zero pen  Input sample. Let's just call it like this because we're not  Right and then quote quote join  D  Okay, so the input file should be written now  Yes, it's actually here and  Yeah, this is like with this is height and this is  The actual data looks pretty much correct  So yeah, okay  Why windows? Why not? I mean it doesn't matter in the end  What I'm going to write is going to probably work on both Linux and windows and OSX  Okay, um, let me continue  Um, so I'm probably need to compile this as well  I'm going to also do a double check, but everything is compiled  I think it I compiled it without optimization. So what I'm worried about is that  This  Is somewhat that code and I guess well, not really true. Every it has some side effects. Maybe  Maybe that code elimination wouldn't remove it and you know during the compilation phase. I let's assume  It's actually where I guess I can open it in Ida and double check. So I but I also should probably compile it with  GG DB to have symbols  Perfect should be 30 bit  Uh, okay. Yeah edit compile  Hmm  Going to just the compile it  Yeah to read when mallog when a loop looks fine after a compilation. So nothing was removed by the compiler  Which is perfect  Obviously if it's not a problem you're going to have your phasing real-world application  applications, right?  Cool, um, so while true  You're going to do what first of all you're going to mutate mutate. So maybe like  Just like this input samples and this is going to just be some data. I'm going to load it into memory  I'm going to assume about the input corpus is rather small where in my case is going to be just one  So it is going to be small, right? But I'm going to assume it's rather small. You can keep it in memory  That's usually the case  Especially if you have a lot of RAM nowadays, right? So like keeping I don't know one gigabyte of files and RAM  It's like nothing and it's way faster when reading them of disk  So yeah, and this is I guess I'm going to do like some dev load file  Function with just loads of file. Sorry. This is Python 2 by the way  Um, that's like a photo injection  And uh, yeah  This door's a file out five so input samples will actually consist only of my input sample my own input sample  Like which is called input sample  Okay, and now while true because a father just keeps running it never ends, you know  I'm going to grab the input sample. I'm going to mutate it  So mutate it sample  Is equal mutate is mutate. I'm going to define in a second. I'm going to also talk about mutation methods  And put sample  Perfect. I'm assuming mutate will actually make a copy of this so I don't have to worry about it being  Because you want to keep the original sample  Not mutated right? You want to still keep it in a form which is um  Well clean out of when you change this  So uh, I will assume that when mutated function will actually just make a copy of it which should be fine for  Hmm for Python. I guess I'm going to just do one change  Going to change this into a byte array  So that's one thing and now now you need to obviously write it like write sample  You take it sample and probably some name. I'm going to assume that the destinations was first argument  To test sample and three was the uh, I have a type of here  now, okay  Um, or maybe like write file or save files a better name to keep  At similar to this  name date  write binary  and just like a write  So it's going to be a byte array, right?  Therefore I need to cast it to a string first  otherwise it would say that I'm sorry, don't  Okay, and now I've written it and now I need to basically like run the application so  I'm going to the print run  Or executor would not  and the name of the application  Which is a.exe  Obviously, obviously in a father, you don't hard code stuff like that  You keep it in a configuration file or you pass it through the arguments but  You know if a stream is only like one hour long so I cannot code everything correctly  I'm just basically values to show you the idea  And this is where we're going to stop at this point. So I'm just going to break  And um, after I implement everything we're going to check if it works  So uh, this is not correct because I do  I need to do some of this import random and random actually has uh, something called toys and it selects  uh, uh, random list elements. So it like will pick one of the input samples  Now I can actually  Do  What I need to do now I need to implement mutate  mutate and what's going to be data  And let's assume that I'm going to actually have a couple of mutators  mutate bits  data  bytes data  And mutate magic  Okay, and here I'm just going to basically like to return random toys  This selects  Okay, and here I'm going to pass  the  mutators of a mutator is going to be picked as at random the same way as  Well, basically the same way as um  um  The bytes are going to be picked up at random now  usually the  um  There are like a couple of  mutators you  You use this a couple of basic mutators, right? The first one is just pick a random bit and flip it  And actually like don't do it once per sample do it  100 times per sample I actually check how long is the data and flip like  1% of bits  Um or the 1% here is actually a parameter for you might want to tweak per target  And um, so that's the one of the basic mutators  We have our basic mutators is what I already described like pick a random byte and change it like  Incremented, decremented or randomly changed it  As in to random value  Or exorate with a random value  And this is uh again usually you don't do it with just one byte  Say that I want to flip 1% of the bytes in a file obviously of a file small then what's going to be probably just one byte that that doesn't really matter  Um, what matters is that if you have you know data which is one mega byte long  You probably like changing one bit isn't going to be too efficiently probably want to change quite a lot of bits all around  When you take magics and interesting thing you mutate magics actually  Well, it's like this. Where is like you know  numerology like think in the security and this means there some magical numbers some special numbers which usually  Are present when some overflow happens and forever good reason and um, I'm going to like write down such numbers a couple of them  This is going to be quite obvious actually  Well, I'm saying I'm calling these magic numbers very first and magic here  First of all um  On the left like the first element of a tuple is going to be the size of a number and then I'm going to do the magic number  And the first one is ff ff being in a 255  55  And this isn't common overflow because if you do ff plus one in a one byte  Register you get zero. So if you have like a malloc  I'm and then like a sterile land some size  Plus one. Well, that's actually incorrect like some  text length and plus one to add this plus one is  You know because you need a new terminator at the end and see language, right?  So that's why you have plus one but you for some reason unknown to anyone you actually cast it to a tower or  Like tower us in unsigned  Tower right like you and eight  And yeah, this is one of the usual  Overflow services why you would want ff to have where  Another one is just zero because you might  Subtract subtract one and get  Get this obviously this will also trigger like overflow. So we have something like plus three here or whatnot because  Um, well ff plus three is also an overflow to give you well or two  Which which is also interesting  For for some reasons  Um, so zero is a good magic number when you have like two byte magic numbers, which is usually like the same thing the same drill  Um, zero is then four byte. I'm going to go into eight byte, but I guess you get the picture  And now apart from that what you also usually do is uh  Like a now. Sorry, this is obviously four byte another set of magic numbers is just  Um, let's go for four byte  It's this  And which is it's interesting because of two reasons first of all is like and min meaning the minimum integer which could be written in  um  Well, when the server minimum value which could be written into a 30 bit 30 to bit integer and there are a couple of things which could go wrong here  Um, as you know, for example, like int min divided min minus one actually crashes programs on x86  Um, on 32 bit x86 then if you have like if this is  Multiplied by two it actually gives you one and then  Yeah, it zeros, but since this is already 42 bits when this doesn't fit here, so it just gets zero  And I guess minus one here would overflow it to the maximum  integer which which is obviously like around to  to billion  So obviously like um for half obvious reasons if something is multiplied by four then this value would also  Um, be interesting  Because this value multiplied by four just gives zero if if it's you know done on a 30 to bit numbers  And then I'm going to use also the maximum  integer which I I mentioned already I guess here you could also do seven f. So this isn't the uh the full  Of a full set, but it gives you the idea what these magic numbers are  Apart from that what you sometimes would like to do is sometimes you want to be a two more intelligent for example  If you have text data like think about xml format like xml. So it's the a text format right or pdf  Where pdf is a mixed format some some data is in text and some data is obviously in  Uh binary format, but when you have like text numbers like for example one two three four right like  Changing  Doing bit flips here. It makes less sense when actually like changing this number interpreting it as a number and changing that for example to  um six five five three five for example, which is uh equal to obviously  ffff  But the novice you would have to create a mutator which tries to find um  digits or numbers and change them as numbers as text to a textual representation of numbers  A part from that uh whatever mutators you usually use  Sometimes you just do like random stuff for example you  Grab a piece of data, which is somewhere in the middle of a file and move it  Or like you remove a piece of the file and like like just you know um  Take the end at the beginning and just move them together  Or you append part of a file to the end of a file  This is um for some formats. It doesn't make sense for some formats. It does for example for chunk-based formats. It might make sense  So this is also another option for mutators um  Whatever things let me  I think it's like we saw most of them for also something which i called personally  Adetive mutators or appending mutators which append data  Um but you usually use them with genetic  Fathers which i'm going to talk about at the end of a stream  I go i guess also like you know chunking the file making it smaller also is a kind of a mutator is sometimes is useful  um  There's a question. What can you say about socket no socks dress or did you know if this is patch?  I actually have no idea what's that sorry, so i kind of thought so for a question  I would need to look it up  Okay, um, sorry um, let's let me finish these mutators and then we can basically go back to  um  To implementing the rest so how many bits do we want to um  Do we want to change let's say we want to change point one percent because why not  Of bits  So this is the count and i guess i need to make an integer out of it because it's a float  And while mutate bytes will be a similar story but without this  Also 1%  Again, this 1% is just a parameter for which should be adjusted based on your target  And in fuzzing is actually really important to put some love basically into  Into these parameters so that you that you choose for mutators  Okay, and then  For i don't know i and  I'm sorry range  count  I need to what pick around them bit so it's going to be bit number  round and  zero to  A number of bits basically  Minus one because round and it's actually inclusive from both sides and  Now I need to figure out which byte is it in you know basic math related to  The bits and now I need to actually change the data  I did mention that I need to make a copy of the data right. How do you make a copy in Python?  I think just doing something like  verse  Should be enough to make a copy  I'm going to actually check it  So I  Assume I have an byte array of lbcd  And this object was placed has this idea is actually placed on this other memory  And now I'm going to make a copy of it and I want to see if it's being  The idea is different the idea is different. It's really close in memory, but you can see that it's actually like in a different place  So that's fine. I made a copy  Um  Therefore, this is exactly what I needed here. I should not forget. Oh, you know what?  Actually, I have a better idea. I shouldn't make this here. I should make it out of  And then  So now I can flip the bit  Hmm  Would you say phasing is something that should be done on all software including web apps?  So I'm not a huge fan of phasing web apps because I think they're better techniques for web apps when doing phasing  As in for example, like exhaustive  Tests where phasing isn't exhaustive phasing and phasing basically, you know, we have switch huge  Space of possibilities of possible states and software and phasing basically like picks random states and tests them  It's like Monte Carlo basically of of security, right?  And websites are usually the input and websites is usually  um  Their patterns like magic patterns for example for SQL injection and whatnot that you can test in different  input well fields or parameters or whatnot, right?  Therefore this kind of approach is a little better. Sometimes people call it phasing  I don't I'm not a fan of actually name calling it phasing  So  But being said in various websites which actually do process complex data like file formats  Which is a little different when you know just the user input on the website  Then yeah, phasing could be a way to go otherwise just do an exhaustive  pattern base  Test and that should be actually better. That's yeah, that's my  I might take on it  What being said? I am not a web application  testing experts  So I might be incorrect and if somebody thinks I'm incorrect, just let me know  Okay  So data add this byte and  X byte  I'm going to flip the bit where  Well, which is done like this. Yeah, again, basic math  And I'm going to return data like actually the data object perfect  Basically the same exact story for this. They need this eye here. I don't need this  And this is  Okay, this is somewhat important. What do I need to do here?  Am I going to what am I going to do here? Should I just put a random value here? Yeah, let's let me put a random value here  Run then  From 0 to 255 again, it's inclusive  And then I should return data  And then the magic numbers. So how many magic numbers do I put? Let's say  Yeah, I can I can use basically the same formula  Obviously if a magic number is in a four byte long, then it's probably going to be  Some more day some more bytes are going to be changed then if always the like this number is picked by that doesn't matter too much  Okay, then I put a play I select a place  So now first I let's assume as I'm going to select the random numbers. So  And it's going to be equal to random  Trollies  numbers  Still like this  And then I do  What do I do now?  I actually have to select a spot where  This is going to be put in  Equal to random random from 0 to then data  Minus and this is actually going to be minus one is going to be  Ensize because you know, I should not  The boundary this is going to I wonder if this is going to fail hard for like do a crash for  Files which are smaller than three bytes. Let me check  In court random  Sorry, and let's do like 0 and minus three  Random is not defined random  Okay, it doesn't like it. It seems  Yeah, yeah, I can't expect to that  So um  Is it like this if  Is that is  Um smaller than zero when just continue just don't do don't apply that doesn't matter  It's just like even if like no changes are going to be applied in this loop when the next iteration of fuzzing will apply some changes because it's and different  Abused so that's fine  Index is supposed to be equal to is that  Yes, this is perfect and now I can actually apply it and to apply it what we need to do  Uh, so this is a little problematic  Because I need to encode this number  I absolutely don't remember what is the struct for byte  Yeah, I'm just going to look it up. Okay  And this is actually what I'm looking for  byte or unsein charge is just capital B  So capital B and then this and this is correct  But I could use you know  CBR here or char  function which we find as well  If there's a rule expression here, but  If you have a problem and you use a rule expression to solve your problem, you are you will going to have two problems  That's both saying which is usually true  Okay, this is again byte, byte, this is two bytes, so I think that's like  I don't know what's h, I was thinking about something else  h, h  And this is everything here is capital i  This is um, I'm actually not selecting the  Endian as here. I'm going with a platform default endian as I might make sense might not make sense  Sometimes you usually want both endianness right because you want  Um, sometimes formats use big endian instead of little endian and where for this value would be in correct to be  Represented in in vain correct and then  Okay, and now I can do data between idx plus  Uh, idx plus size  Rn size  Erg, it seems there are some  Um, others work a couple of comments  I don't say that  This for this might default to and this as well might default to  Zero in case of some files that's actually a good remark and in case of my file, it won't  It will be one at least always but that's a good remark but every file is smaller than  100 bytes basically it would just go to zero  So if it's equals zero then count as equal one. I'm just going to default to one in all cases  Um, yeah, I'm going to default to eight now. I should do this and the same actually here. So that's a good remark  Hmm, I think  shouldn't the index by  um  There's a question about the shouldn't was be two now it's it should be eight actually because in it's what we are trying to do is we're trying to know  Um, in memory right every cell is at least on x86 every cell is eight bytes or eight bits  So what means that what we are doing here having the number of the index of bit we are first  We have to find which cell is it and each cell against eight  Bizer for we divide it  But then inside the cell where I eight bits. So you just take the rest of the division or the modulo modulo  To know which bit of these eight bits you are actually targeting  So that's correct  A lot of IoT devices have web interfaces when a father would make sense to I guess  It depends like what oh again, what you're expecting from the web interface  If and if you're attacking the website which layer are you attacking right if you're attacking a website if you're attacking the  HTTP parser of the web server because what's the different thing and you use different tools to attack it  already want to attack the TCP parser or IP parser or ethernet  Frame parser or not right for each layer basically use the different  Technic and for everything like starting from HTTP parser down  Using a father is a good idea for web application again like just doing pattern exhaustive  Tests would be would be better  Okay, so the same person says that  He used the father ones on the website and found a heap buffer overflow  I guess if the website is implemented in C or C++, but also makes sense and what rarely but happens especially it happened  You know in the good old cdi  Error I could try using visual visual block mode in the vim for editing multiple lines. So if I encounter  This kind of sonner. I don't need to  Check how I can do it because I actually have behave MS win in my vim and it kind of messes up  The visual part. I'm not I'm not completely sure if I  Can do it on my vim if it's like possible to do it. It's a good question, but I need to check it  Yeah, so control v and when you do behave MS win in vim control is just like paste  So yeah  Why can't do still visual select this way and then you see shift i yeah and it  Yeah, it totally jumps out of the visual mode  So do I have mutators implemented yes, I do I think how I have them implemented so let's continue with  Say file is already implemented and then run is not implemented before I need to  Just  And for the time being I'm going to do  um  Subpro says  Will I stream tomorrow yes usually first they I do the stream and publish and there will be a stream and publish  Uh at this was the plan today unless something comes up  Hopefully nothing will  What do I have to do here just I guess subprocess  Call is fine  Check code check out boot  Check code is fine as well and we'll throw an exception. That's good  And now exactly and then put some pull just some pull  Okay, that's fine  Check code will actually if the return value is not zero  Is it for an exception  Which surprisingly on both windows and Linux if an application crashes which with a like access violation or six segs  Six segs when the  Return the error code returned is not the exit code is not  Not zero zero. This is perfect  I can do this try run ex uh  I don't know I'm going to like make it crash first just to see what exception throws. I guess I could  Um, well, this is  Writing is hard  Okay  It's probably crash  Might be something else, but probably crash  Test dot sample. I made a type of dick. Thank you very much  Okay, let's see if it works  Um, let's see also how many typos I missed and how many typos  You told me about on chat, but I didn't read it and where for I missed  None  None is fine  None is okay. That's what default  Like return value and Python for functions. We don't return anything  So that's okay. I'm not actually  And it didn't crash, but what I'm interested in is basically did it create a sample file  So yes, it did it's 108 bytes. So let's compare it. I'm going to use total commanders  Comparing to to do the comparison. How do you say it in English?  I cannot in two English it seems. Okay, here we are  And it seems it that choose the byte  No, it's choose the bit um, the bit  Metator because as you can see, only bits are mutated here, right? Like you have  41 should be everywhere here, but only one bit differs in all of these places  So so this is fine. It did work  It didn't obviously find a crash because as I said, phasing isn't about one wrong. It's about one billion runs per second  Or whatnot  Well, it's about a lot of runs. Then usually when you talk about phasing you talk about how many cpu years you used to do the phasing and  At least on one scale  So I'm going to remove that break and I'm going to do  this  If i is equal to  if i  And I can  Is equal to zero  Van type print  Van type a dot type sorry like printed dot  So this is Python 2. I if I want to print a dot without a space and without an enter, I actually need to import this  Like we do need to do this right  So sorry STD out right a dot and then I need to flash it  Because sometimes the flash automatically happens only if you write either  1,040  1,024  Pights into a buffer was like the default behavior on  On Linux if I remember correctly or when a new line is encountered, but only if you're operating under a console  Velody behind when a flash happens is it's easy, but it's  This is  Struct is not defined  What really?  Okay, so something is working. I see my cpu  Um, oh, I this is even better. So the application crashed and I do have  Adjust in time the bugger attached and having a just in time the bugger attached means that I can you know  I can already basically like start debugging it and wonder what happened  And you know analyze the crash, but it's not really useful for fuzzing because it's  Well, it's waiting for me to close by the bugger to continue  But it did detect that it's a crash. So that's correct. I think basically the same thing happened on my  Hmm on my polystream. So it does seem to work. I'm going to interrupt it and I'm going to do a couple things. First of all, I'm going to  Uh, change verse to a smaller value  Actually, I'm going to test to like true for now  To see how many that's not a lot of iterations per second was like  four or five iterations per second. That's  What basically to be expected  Hmm doing this way. I'm doing it  And it does find crashes as you can see  So it actually after finding a crash what it should do and what is not doing that now, right?  It should actually copy the test sample somewhere  So let me do a test uh, a save file again  And crash dot sample dot and here a number and the number should be unique, but I'm I'm going to ignore that for a second  I'm just going to do  this uh, the counter and then get it sample  Okay, so it found the bug now I can actually I'm going to uh, oops  Okay, I'm going to analyze the sample which is it found and by  analyzing I mean I'm going to come  Sorry, I'm going to  Compare this crash samples file with  my  My input yes again using the same method. So let's see what happens what happened here basically it  This is a byte mutator, right? And it selected this byte and this byte  And it actually arrived at the value which uh, like the value is eight  Oh  Here and one two one  A oh a  And this was multiplied then in the program by this value, which is one  Oh, oh a and this oh this is an overflow basically because the result of this  Multiplication totally totally does not fit into a 30-bit integer versus where for the  Malok allocated a too small buffer due to the overflow and there was an attempt using the print  Server for loop to read too much data into it and that's what caused the crash  Which again is exploitable and proves that our father works  Now um, there isn't  Too much time left on the stream. So I'm probably not going to  Yeah, I'm not going to show you how to attach the bugger  But uh, well, it's uh, and Viet's is rather easy. You basically create a gdb script  but  those gdb like instruments the gdb to  um  Attach or actually open a process when run it and then actually maybe I can do it because it's rather easy  Yeah, let's do it whatever  Um, so first I need to and instead of running the exoname, I need to  Doverse I need to run gdb  Let me check if I might gdb actually works with the target because I honestly don't know which version shown up gdb do I have  Yeah, it seems to work, which is fine. So yeah  And exoname now  This is fine  Now what I need to do in gdb is I need to create a gdb script  I'm going to cut code like detect gdb. It might be called father gdb, but doesn't matter  Um, sir said hides here is probably the first thing to do otherwise the gdb will just lock up in some cases  then I need to do  What I need to do I need to run it right and I do know how to run it again  I'm going to hard-coded this you wouldn't hard-coded  So run with a parameter for a test sample and then it might crash or might not crash if it crashes then actually  um  All we need to quit at the end anyway  Because I'm not I am in a lot. I need to actually pass the script to the gdb  So batch and now no not batch batch is actually exit when you're done  um, so  And now the name of the script which is detect gdb  Okay, now I probably should do so let's do this  And run now the crash along the crash I have  It crashed and now how do I know that there was a crash?  I don't do I care I don't good  So  I'm going to do IR which is  n4 registers  And then I'm going to basically I don't know. Let's say I'm going to print 10 instructions for the IP  I might want to set this  They want to do anything. Oh, where where is like where on a call stack?  I guess I can do it in this order so it's a little better and then I quit  So you know if actually the application doesn't crash and just exist when  V's free don't do anything which is fine with me  and then  um, let's see how it behaves. So  x  detect gdb  Yeah, it died with a segmentation fault. Okay, and now I'm not going to use check call. I'm going to use check output  Oh, sorry, what's the  um  You know what I'm going to know. Does it yeah, it just  Perfect. It's just  Returns. I'm going to check what's the error level here. I think the error level is going to be error level is the exit code  as you know  It's just zero. So that's okay. So it's not going to crush on me.  I'm going to use check output because output check output actually returns whatever is written  to  Here so  How to put  Yeah  Which is fine and now what I'm going to do is I'm going to detect if there's any  capital sick or like program a shift sick or a shift a signal  If this in output then return output otherwise return  Now this fine, I guess  So this changes a little the logic here  Um output is equal to run if outputs is not  known  then  This and say I and I guess also  Print the output, you know, you could just like go move parts of the output  I could yeah, I'm going to do it. I'm going to modify the script a little. Obviously I did close. No, I didn't already die  Yeah, obviously I closed my editor  So you do  Here let's assume it crashed  Per for you we do echo this  This is like a magic something maybe I should just like yeah looks more magic, doesn't it  Basically a unique string, which is not anywhere else inside the script  And now what I'm going to do is actually in this case I'm going to do  Output I'm going to split it before I go over I need to check something  Does it echo the commands? No, it doesn't echo the command which is perfect. Oh, the problem is here, but it actually  Yeah, that's not good  Because I do need to  Seriously, I did close my editor again  Usually when I close and editor what means I will need it for a second. I'm going to go with here  Yeah, okay, and now I'm going to split it with this and I'm going to select  One because everything I like everything printed before it right everything printed before this  Is going to be zero when everything which I'm interested in is going to be one and when everything after is going to be two  That's you know basic splings is to yeah  And I actually I'm going to return this  Yeah  Since I'm actually running it under the the bagger then the dust and time the bagger will not pop up  So it will not block my fuzzing which is perfect, which is exactly what I want  I'm also should actually like save output. So I'm going to do this  Not TXT and output action. Okay, so looks good. Let's see if it works  Or are you here or online five  No, this is fine. Why did it why did it hang my  Yes, let's run to get  Did it I might not keep it hold my  Let's see if it actually hold my editor like held  Yeah, it held my father. Why did it help mom my father  I don't have a queue here right  I guess I'm going to add batch  Batch will force it to exit one viskrift is executed. So I don't need the queue here anymore. Yeah, now it works  Uh, I don't care about this error too much. I guess I should just remove uh  Oh, maybe the application freezes and that's why it  It holds yeah, that's fine  Yeah, I guess I should like take this  The standard error and actually put it somewhere else  So one thing which you you can notice is that running under the bag is actually slower like it slows things down, right  But that that's fine. I don't  It doesn't matter. So let it run for a second. I'm going to check if there's any question over. There are no questions  So yeah, let's let it run. Let's see if it actually finds a  No, what  So instead of check out what I'm going to use p open  And because using p open allows me to do something else  P open  Let's be and what I can do is I can do  Hmm, this is okay. Okay  Standard output is going to be  I wonder if this will actually fix the problem  So I want to have like pipe for this and for standard error. I want to have known  Can I just put use it known? Yeah, it can be known. Okay, perfect. Now I can do communicate  I think it's called communique  Now I have double M that's correct and what I get here is I got standard output services that basically the output  I'm looking for and whatever and then I do wait  So now I think I mixed up the order when we're trying to code so  So  Communicate  Play the first wait or do I do first communicate  Intracts on status reads waits for one hour. I don't need to do it. Okay, so this is fine. I can close  I need to close it. I don't know if I need to close it. I'm just going to not close  Let's see if it works  It's a capital P. This is the link  Uh, another way to fix it is actually to make gdb log into a file but yeah, okay. I can I could change in the gdb  Hmm  Script to actually log into a file starting from some point and actually also detect if a signal was risen  Which is a little harder to let it run and let's see if it crashes  I'm going to also see if oh maybe it crashed perfect perfect perfect. This is exactly what I wanted to show  So now my father actually works it actually outputs at the bugger  report it shows as where the  What were actually the  Crash happened, right?  I see I have a I should have used I and I think I used x instead in my gdb  Scoot over when there was a call stack which also  What it happened at line 22 and there are some like  Internals of see library which we don't care about because we know about the bugs in our program  And then the registers which we don't really care about at this point but that doesn't matter  Now what I want you to do here. So obviously I want you to do  I which is instruction  Okay, now there's a question and I'm going to chat a little about oh, I'm going to upload this code to my github  So  I was going to be here  You'd have slash gunvile and then if you go versus like stream at the end which is the English version  So I'm going to put all the code here which I've written today. It isn't too great  So now I'm going to talk I'm going to answer the questions and I'm going to talk a little about how  AFL differs from this as in how genetic fuzzing which is currently used  differs from what I'm shown which is called dumb fuzzing  and the question is um  I usually read security news and  I would somebody would really like to know my opinion on NSA and shadow breaker  Breaker's news  And again, I need to  I need to look into it also more I just read the press articles on it  But if I I would state and well opinion or just give you like some update on what is it about?  I would have to look into it  Well  The bottom line is like if you did like we're hiding under a rock for the last week is that  basically some exploits from  We're released by shadow breaker's and the exploits were  are told to be from  NSA or CIA or one of  three letter agencies  and basically all the bugs are already fixed by Microsoft fixed some time ago  by like month to month or three months ago  So yeah, but it looks really interesting and there are some  Some bagglers as well. I know some people in IRC asked me if I could analyze some bagglers on stream from  So yeah, that's a that's an idea. We have any ideas you know for streams just put them in the comments under this video once  It's already on YouTube  Also my microphone is working today over time and obviously the last week it  It didn't so that's weird  But another question are you  From oven are we also using Python subprocess to exploit as did the in vulnerabilities  um  Yes, sometimes  depends on  Depends on the exploit, but if I need do need to interact with application vaneas otherwise, you know  I just generate a file and feed the file using bash using the triangle brackets and in bash, right?  Cool  So how does the dump fuzzer which I showed you today  differ from smart fuzzing and if you would like me to actually  Well smart fuzzing isn't the correct word from genetic fuzzing and if you would like me to actually like code a genetic fuzzer on stream  like  Propose the topic what's actually a good topic for the next stream?  So if I want to find a better topic  For for the next week, I will just do  Coated genetic fuzzer based on the fuzzer. I have created today just to show you the  the differences, but in short basically a genetic fuzzer  tries to monitor like when you have an input it tries to monitor which branches of application are hit by  By the sample so  Let me maybe jump here and open our application idea  So this application isn't really a good example, but  Yeah, but whatever  Yeah, so basically if you have you know  An application you might have an input which  goes  I'm just going to use these blocks as an example. So don't read the code  Very just like treated as an example. You might get an application which  Which input goes like here to this block and then it takes this  Red route right, but you might also have another input after you mutate something  But actually goes here using this green route and enters this block and this block and basically by going this route  It unlocks some another block and now it might go for example here later on  Where for one input actually unlocked already two blocks now which were previously unknown. So  What that genetic fuzzing does is it  grabs a sample  mutate it obviously  Then runs the application and checks which blocks are visited by the CPU  During execution of this application and it notes down the blog numbers the addresses or whatnot, right?  and then it  Basically checks did this sample cause the CPU to visit any block which was previously not to visit it at all  Uh, therefore did the sample uncover actually new blocks in the application or did the  Input sample cover new blocks or whatever you want to however you want to interpret it  But in the end that sample if yes, as well if the answer is yes, it did uncover a new block. It's put into the  The corpus back into the corpus right is not being discarded as you see I just discovered mutated samples in my fuzzer  But in genetic fuzzing it basically put it back into the corpus  and  Well, this idea is uh, I think AFL was basically the first fuzzer I've seen it and I am I'm not sure if  Michael  We have those are actually discovered it, but I'm pretty sure that's the first place. I saw it. So  Um, yeah, anyway, and therefore what it turns out that when  This happens your genetic fuzzer is suddenly from having a corpus, which is going to  I was only like go here and always here because what's your corpus and doing  Random mutation sometimes you might encounter this block, but you will probably never reach this block  You might suddenly start getting  Feeding the corpus with mutations which actually always reach this block and therefore another mutation  Which will reach this block and the next yet mutation will reach this block and this block and this block and so on and so on and therefore  Um, the coverage of applications the  Basically the state space of applications being explored and genetic fuzzing using  Well, this automatic fashion and it's really effective if it turns out it is really effective in finding  New bugs basically which are not findable by a dump fuzzer basically  It's it's it's improbable like the probability of finding  vis bugs by  Dump fuzzer are minimal  But a genetic and genetic fuzzing you can basically find  quite a lot of bugs just by  just like  Having input corpus with an a letter and then letting the fuzzer run and then genetic fuzzing  I mentioned but another mutator group is used which I called again appendix or additive mutators  It's a mutator what happens data like random data or like magic values or what not  Because you know if a file is getting too small due to truncation and when you start adding data  Um, you need to be able to add data basically to the end of a filed for this to be efficient  So yeah, that's how genetic fuzzing works and afl and honkfuz actually use this method and um  It's uh  It's not the only magic trick which by use they are also like for example the fork server or using prediction or is for fuzzing or  um  Like for example afl has a key emoo mode, but um  I guess I can well, we can chat about it next weekend less and a better topic comes up  So also let me know what do you think about continuing the fuzzing  Topics on my stream next weekend. I guess what's it. So  Are there any questions having there's one or two more questions and I'm going to finish for today. So  Yeah, let's get to that  Okay  So question from Dave is when you fuzzing up do you tend to use pre-existing frameworks or roll your own  Um, so uh, again as I mentioned of the being of a stream. I actually do have a  At-scale fuzzer which I usually use so  Yeah, my egg as was the answer to that question meaning I use a pre pre-existing framework, which I actually developed to if  Mateo's you'll check with help of some other people  Um, what about kernel fuzzing kernel fuzzing is a that's a great question actually kernel fuzzing subtle different  First of all detection of kernel bugs is different because  For example, you you know, when the kernel you find the kernel bug they are  Applicating the operating system crashes you get a blue screen of death on the windows. You get a kernel panic on Linux  so  You need to detect these conditions on windows is rather easy because you can just do  Like make windows do a memory dump after  Um, after a blue screen is encountered and unless you are super lucky slash unlucky for a bug to to like  screw a system up so bad that is not even able to  To display you the blue screen because you know the code is playing the blue screen of death also is still code, right? So unless you  Um, you do that when the memory dump of system might be written  Down on the disk and then on the rebuild you might have an event which actually grabs this and sends it to some other server  and when you do operating system fuzzing usually  Do fuz syscall so you grab a random syscall and populate it with random  Or somewhat smartly chosen parameters and then see what happens as benefit crashes  Or you do like whole chains of calls to sys calls where you know once this call creates an object and then another syscall  Like grabs the object and does does something on it and so on  Or you find the drivers and you communicate with them using creeds rights or I see ioctls  sorry  or you um  I don't know find some parsing functionality like for example  Mathieu's check found quite out of bugs and font parsing and up until windows 10  font parsing was in kernel mode and on windows which is in the web place you want to keep  font parsing and fonts are  Extremely complicated if you're interested basically like look up Mathieu's checks or yours research  And what's the what's the I think like on  Project 0 he published something recently or am I mistaking  Let me see  I guess you would like to see the screen  project yeah, that's exactly what we wanted  Um  I and parsed something I didn't read this was like a super new it's like from yesterday. Well, that's cool  need to read through later  Um, let's skip for Ion's post for now  other posts  um ever in the first was published by gal  Yeah, uh notes on uni scribe phasing on like from 10th of april on project 0's block you can read out about phasing  um fonts on other windows  Which is really interesting interesting  So yeah kernel phasing is it's also like  I'll do it is really close to phasing um  Like  User mode stuff, but it's a little different domain  Okay, that's about a good question maybe um API phasing what about API phasing  I wish father would I suggest so it depends what kind of API do you have in mind right? Is it  Because you know API is basically a bag of  Terms of different technologies, which you might have in mind. It might be like a web API RPC API or just when API  So  Depending on what do you mean exactly  um, you basically use a similar approach to  To hurry fast operating system or hurry fast for example language interpreters right or javascript for example javascript as a good  good example of API phasing because  you grab  Well, basically a list of APIs when somehow create a program out of it  their ways to do it  um like  Something for example like a mark of strain that generates a valid javascript which gets executed and obviously  The parameters are being chosen either smartly or more randomly  And then you might actually you know find some bugs in the not in the parser button by API itself because the idea here is not to  fast the parser  But to actually fast the API implementation  So yeah, that's one of a way to do it over ways to do it  and cross-faz was for example a good  um  Example of an API he fuzzer across fast you can find on arkamtos blog  It was created by the same person who created  a falfaz  Yes, so  Versa follow up on the kernel. Yeah, I meant both windows and looks kernels. I mean, there's the same thing  As in well, there's this calls on both right and quite a lot of more sys calls on windows actually  Okay, I guess that's it for today. So thank you very much for staying late and  See you next week again if you have any ideas for the streams just you know put them in the comments down below  If you liked my stream tell your friends about it  I mean the more the merrier and you know the more motivations for me to to basically keep streaming and  Thank you to disconnected for being here and for passing me the questions  So I guess I'll be for some time on both chats if you want to grab me later on and that's about it for today  So again, thank you and I'm leaving you with some music by again as usual nervous test pilot. Bye. Bye
