# Return-oriented Programming - GynvaelEN Livestream 20

**Channel:** GynvaelEN
**Video ID:** iwRSFlZoSCM

## Transcript

Good evening everyone, I apologize for the delay, let's see if it even works, yeah, it should work.  The delay was sponsored by, I guess, me upgrading to the newest version of Windows,  what is it called, like, the Creators update or something like that,  which basically made my Linux Virtual Machine unusable,  and I'm bound all the devices like microphones and so on from open broadcast software,  so I had to reconfigure it when I obviously, like, just realized that that's the problem  too much before actually I should start streaming, so that's why the delay today.  I have a good excuse today, that's my excuse, but I have a good excuse.  So again, sorry for the delay, and good evening everyone, and yeah, today's moderator is disconnected.  No, it's all right, do I have, why isn't this flipped?  Let's flip it, transform. Perfect, now, yeah, this guy is today's moderator,  and yeah, if you have any questions, then think this guy on IRC or on YouTube,  and he will telepathically let me know what was the question, and I will try to answer it.  Cool, so what are we going to talk about today?  We are going to talk about return-oriented programming, which is one of a classic,  let's call it exploitation techniques, it's actually a bypass for the NX protection,  which is a non-executable memory. It's quite funny because, like,  if you know, for example, the executable format on Windows, you know, PE format,  then you know, there were basically like three flags for each section,  always from like Windows NT, from the beginning to Windows NT,  and these were like readable, writable, and executable,  so you could set that memory is, for example, readable and executable,  or you could set it that is only readable, but not executable.  And up until Windows XP service back to these settings, we didn't do anything.  And like, you could execute any memory, regardless whether the executable bit was set or not.  And then about that time, I'll introduce something called an X,  which is, again, non-execute memory, which is an additional flag bit  in one of the variants of a page table, and actually the physical address extension page table,  which isn't the most basic one, it's like the one on top of that,  and this is related to 32 bits, the 64 bit page table already has the NX bitver.  AMD, of course, did something similar. I think they called it like execution disabled,  like XD bit, or something like that, and Microsoft incorporated this as the depth data execution prevent.  Mechanism in Windows.  And obviously, similar story was, well, happened on Linux, very quickly incorporated the NX bit,  and it became effective, meaning that you could not, you couldn't no more  put your shell code on heap or on stack or wherever, and just jump there and have it executed,  because now the CPU would tell you, well, actually, no, this is readable,  but it's not executables, I'm going to throw an exception.  And what killed that idea for exploits basically, and when people realize that,  hey, well, there's a lot of code in the memory anyway, right?  I mean, there is the binary, the main binary of the process, which is executing for our countless libraries,  so at least we're usually in EPC, a dynamic loader on Linux and, like, kernel32 and anti-DLL on Windows.  And there's a lot of code work, and we just like find bits and pieces which we could reuse in memory,  and maybe just jump around a little and make the CPU do what it wants to do, what we wanted to do.  Anyway, regardless of how it's not being able to put our shell code on the stack,  and they have at, like, plus, minus or give or take, that's how Rob came into existence.  Yeah, initially it was called return to RIPC, because you just returned to, for example, the system function in C.  And then it became a little more advanced, we've actually not just returning to a single function  or a chain of functions, but actually going to small pieces of code, which weren't really a function or small pieces of code,  all around memory to do your bidding.  So yeah, that's return-oriented programming. It's a pretty standard technique nowadays.  Some might say that it's even deprecated a little recently due to additional protections being introduced,  which are supposed to mitigate return-oriented programming.  But I guess on CTF's is your daily bread and butter, you basically have to know return-oriented programming  and to be able to exploit most challenges, if not all challenges.  So I wanted to share some tips today with you on that.  I'm not sure I'm going to be able to demonstrate all the things I wanted to show you,  because just because, well, again, due to the windows update,  my Linux VMs don't work, and they totally don't work.  And I wasn't able to debug it in ten minutes before the stream, so yeah.  So I guess I'll show you some of the Linux stuff, and I'll show you some of the Windows stuff more live.  Cool. So before we get there, some usual announcements.  This is the last announcement I want to make.  So, okay. First of all, again, thank you for this connected for being here as my moderator.  If you have any questions, let him know.  Disconnected.pl with a free here. That's a free address of his blog.  I guess he updates it regularly, like somewhat.  Yeah, but there's a difference between frequently and regularly.  You can update something regularly, even if you update it like every six months.  But if you do it every six months, you still do it in regular time periods, right?  And you can do something frequently, like, for example, every two weeks, or every week, or every day.  Anyway, thank you for this connected for being here.  Now, the usual set of my favorite YouTube channels being live overflow,  which, again, if you're into security into CTS, you probably know it already.  If you don't, go over, subscribe.  A live overflow has really great video tutorials on security, basically.  Then, more of CTS is a new, well, somewhat new now.  He's been streaming for a couple of weeks.  Most CTS stuff and security stuff.  He streams in the US Times on if I'm not mistaken.  As a normally one, I get an alert popping that he's currently going online.  It's, yeah, it's middle of a night, like 2 a.m. or something.  Yeah, but check out his videos.  He has some really really cool stuff.  For example, you asked about Manticore, which is, you know, like, Anger-like thing.  He did a tutorial on it, so check it out.  It's youtube.com slash more moves CTF.  Next one.  Retro game modes.  youtube.com slash users slash retro game modes.  If you're into old computers and electronics, this guy is just awesome.  And I really love his videos.  He doesn't post to often, like, once every couple of months,  but very, usually, really lengthy and really, really amazing.  So, yeah.  Go subscribe to his channel.  Now some news.  This weekend, or actually, even before the weekend, Natalie, Natasha Enka,  and Tavis dropped this tweet.  I think Natasha Enka, and I just discovered the worst Windows remote code execution  in recent memory.  This is crazy bad report on the way.  Obviously, it got, well, the hype was real, right?  Everyone just started retreating.  And, well, Microsoft actually released a patch a few days later,  because the patch Tuesday was scheduled to be a few days later,  and very responded really quickly to patching the problem.  And it turned out that the problem is actually,  to show you how fast they responded, Tavis actually said  is really an amazing respond time, which I fully agree,  like, a couple of days to fix a remote code execution  of the scale that's really well done.  So, Microsoft, like, nice.  Well done.  The back itself was kind of funny.  It's basically a critical remote RCE in Defender,  which is, you know, the Microsoft's antivirus.  I don't know the full details, but from what I know,  it was a JavaScript scanner slash interpreter,  and it was in an Iver, like, in a critical process  that had a lot of areas to access, or even in kernel mode,  like something like with crazy high privileges.  So, the idea was what you just sent an email  that had some JavaScript to exploit,  and it would scan it for you and get exploited,  and that are your, you're on the victim's machine.  So, that was a really awesome back,  but Natalia and Tavis discovered.  So, props to them, and props to Microsoft for doing really fine.  Really fast fix.  Okay, so to close these,  we can now chat a few seconds about,  well, the solution to the second mission.  If you're new to my channel,  or don't stay, don't watch the videos until the end,  until the very end,  you should know that I post these, like,  basic simple challenges at the end of a stream.  So, when I actually go, you know,  turn of the camera,  versus actually a mission in the,  in exactly this format posted,  and you can basically read it and try to solve it,  and then put that solution,  a link to the solution in the comments under the video.  I know some people, for example,  on the Polish side of my podcast,  some people do even the full blog posts  about how to solve it,  and there are some really cool write-ups out there already.  And a lot of people post codes of the solutions,  which is also great, thank you for sharing.  And yeah, for the last mission,  which was mission 002 was solved by five people,  it was probably solved by more people,  but five people did paste some codes  under the video on YouTube and my channel.  So, quickly about the challenge.  This time, the challenge was that an agent  got some message to send to, you know, the HQ,  and it was Hoofman and Kolytsi Hoofman is a,  well, it was, it was slash this, hopefully,  hopefully it is a person.  And basically, there's something called  Huffman and Kolytsi,  and that's a compression algorithm,  which boils down to creating,  you have an alphabet,  and you create a binary tree,  where the tree is usually created in a way  that to the characters in the message,  which are the least frequent,  are actually somewhere at the bottom of the tree,  versus at the bottom of the tree,  like furthest away from the root.  And the characters which are really frequent in a message  that you compress are somewhere close to the root,  as close as possible.  That's the usual idea behind creating a Huffman tree.  Now, we are given a message,  which is basically ones and zeros,  and yeah, and this tree on the left,  and you're supposed to decode the message.  So usually in Huffman, it goes like this,  but if you have a tree,  then going left is encoded by one,  and going right is encoded by zero,  or the other way around.  So going right is encoded by the opposite of what I just said,  and going left the same.  So in this case, for example,  we would like to encode the character,  oh, let's just go through the message, right?  Let's assume that one is going right,  and zero is going left,  so that would be one,  and then zero,  which would lead us to character four.  So after these two characters here,  we would actually already emit the character four  as the compressed character,  and then we had some zeros,  so which means we would go left, left, left, left, left,  and I think there's like three ones  after that, so one, two, three,  and that would be nine,  so that would be four or nine,  and we already have the first ASCII character,  or 49, which is, I don't know,  it's like something like H-ish.  So yeah, or maybe I,  I think that's capital I.  So that was basically the whole idea,  but you had to transcribe this tree,  figure out which characters are zeros,  and which are ones,  and also does one mean going right,  or doesn't mean going left over  to possibilities to how to interpret this tree,  and it was done like this on purpose,  so you'd have to, well,  check both conditions, basically.  And then,  the first one to submit a solution  on the YouTube channel was Marek Zori,  and the message,  when the message was,  I like trees, flowers too,  it was the correct answer,  and he did post a link  to this solution.  He actually encoded the tree as a set of ifs,  so he basically took the tree  and converted it into a tree  of the seasonal tree,  basically based on ifs,  which is a correct solution.  It's somewhat lengthy,  and the way you write it down,  is like 50 lines,  and quite a lot of indentation.  But in the end, it worked,  so yeah, you know, on CTS,  whatever works works,  and this is the same for such solutions,  there are multiple ways to solve it,  and this is,  it worked, it's a correct solution.  Now, to get it back to this,  the second person who submitted  was Artur Novak.  He also posted his code on GitHub.  Now, he actually did transcribe  the tree as zeros and ones.  I guess he figured it out,  or just tried,  which,  what does 0 and what does 1 mean,  like going left or right?  And yeah, in the end,  after transcribing the tree to 0 and 1,  he basically decoded it by,  well, checking if the message starts  with one of these,  and if it would start  when he would add this  to add the given character  to the decoded message,  and then would actually  increase the position  the index, which is used here  by the length of,  well, how many zeros and ones  were in the given character.  So quite a nice solution,  well done.  The third person was,  sorry, did I skip somebody?  Yes.  So the third person was  AnonymousMastos.  I'm sorry if I totally butcher your name,  and the implementation is in pastebin.  Now, I actually can give you  the link to this,  both channels.  So, never says a public presentation.  As in, you can actually click  well, you don't have to transcribe them.  So looking at his solution,  he basically has a really,  really, really similar solution  to the one I just told you,  again, he has a dictionary  created with translation  between the characters  and a set of zero and ones.  And then,  yeah, basically,  he does a similar thing  to what I showed you in the previous,  in the previous solution.  The fourth solution was,  done by Adrian Laskowski,  which was posted on YouTube  directly.  And I really like  if a way he represented  virtually.  I must say that I would be  super scared  while writing this down  not to confuse  whether it's,  whether I opened enough brackets  or closed enough brackets.  I'm pretty sure he had  it like written down  in a long way  and then just  truncated it down  removing the spaces  and new lines.  But, yeah,  this is the final outcome.  And I guess the,  this is just walking through the tree  where our actor is,  is found in it.  So, yeah, well done,  representing the tree  as a set of  recursive list,  I guess, one way to go.  Again, whatever works,  works, and the code is  rather short as well,  thanks to this.  It's actually, I think,  one of the shortest solutions.  And the last person was,  actually,  Arun Kumar,  who posted a link,  again,  on GitHub.  And this is a similar solution,  so again,  it's a recursive set  of the list,  so actually a tree represented  as a recursive set of lists.  Or like,  a recursive list of lists,  whatever.  And basically,  the same code  which traverses,  goes from the root  and traverses  down the  the list,  which is,  which is a nice solution,  again,  and a pretty short one at that.  So, yeah,  these were the solutions  to the previous mission,  and the next mission  will be, obviously,  a little free,  will be posted  at the end of this live stream.  So, what's that?  Okay,  let me quickly go through  the questions,  and we get,  we can go to,  we can get,  start,  talking about,  return-oriented programming.  So, there's one question,  are you gonna do some  Rob?  Rob being blind,  Rob?  It's from the  Besser Vicer.  Is that,  the, like,  a person who knows  better or something?  I'm sorry,  my German is terrible.  At some point,  yes,  I would like to,  not today,  but at some point,  I would totally like  to blind-drop  and blind-exploitation  is,  it's fun.  It's not  what I did a lot,  but it's fun.  So,  at some point,  basically,  if you'd like me to do it,  then put an idea  for an episode  in the comments  under this video,  once it's on YouTube,  and this is basically  where I look  for ideas for my videos,  and today's episode  is,  like that,  I basically  like found a comment,  which said,  hey,  return-oriented programming,  and I said,  yeah,  I actually feel like  doing return-oriented programming  today,  so why not?  There are three more questions.  What's  J-O-P?  J-O-P is  a jump-oriented programming.  It's somewhat  similar in nature  to a return-oriented programming,  but it's  a two more complicated  instead of  returns,  you're basically looking  for a jump-switch tables  in the code.  There's a paper,  if you look  for a jump-oriented programming,  there's a cool paper about it.  We can talk about it  someday,  as well,  but look like a cool technique.  I never actually  used it.  I just read the paper.  Okay,  and we're  on our question.  Our words,  oh, challenges  are going to be crypto-related.  And  there are  better visor  asks about  missions  kinda,  but no.  Basically, they  will be programming-related  as in, well,  most of them,  I will like  what you guys do,  you folks  to basically solve  the  to do some  programming in order  to solve a challenge,  but doesn't have to be  a crypto-related  all the time.  It's,  I would argue  that half-man  wasn't really crypto-related,  it was a compression algorithm,  so  it's not really crypto,  it's encoding,  so that's more programming  than crypto.  I would argue,  there might be  some different  ones  today's mission  will actually be similar  to this one.  Enter  another question.  Are you going  to Pixel Haven  to Pixel Heaven  at the end of  this month?  As far as I know,  you don't despise  retro games.  I'm not going  since I'm doing  somewhat  a break from the conferences  this year.  I will be,  I attended one conference  so far,  I'm going to attend  another one  late  in the year,  and that's about it.  Maybe next year,  I was thinking about  going to Pixel Heaven,  so, yeah,  maybe next week,  next year,  sorry.  Okay,  let's get down to business,  then.  So,  well, I guess  the most important part  about, you know,  Rob's  and the return-oriented  programming is  having  a list of gadgets.  And the gadget  is basically a piece  of code-rich  and it's  with our turn.  Now, that's pretty obvious.  I'm going to find  some,  I don't know,  some, some  library on the,  on the C.  Since, again,  I'm going to do  Windows today,  just because I don't  have access to my  Linux machine.  I'm going to find  NTDLL  and  KernelDLL  these are the two  libraries which are  they are  always in the memory  of a process  under Windows always.  You don't have to,  the processes  have to have them  in the import table  they will be  used to  how it works in Windows.  So, yeah, I have  both  to, like,  these two DLLs  which contain quite  a lot of code  if you actually, like,  look at them  from something  which can power  SPE,  where is the text section  which contains  code  and it's executable  and it's readable  and it actually  it actually  has a decent  virtual size,  but it's actually quite  good for a megabyte  of code  and you can usually  find quite a lot  of gadgets  as in usable  pieces of code.  A usable piece  of code  in returning  into the programming  is called a gadget  if you didn't know.  Now we know.  So, how do you  extract gadgets  from  a file like that?  There are a couple of ways.  Usually, you download  the tool  and use it  and there are some  tools like  Rob Gadget.  I think  one is called  Robular.  Personally,  I'm using my own tool  which I've written.  It's a clumsy,  stupid,  but it does its job  and it looks like  like this.  It uses the  this  sorry,  this storm-free  library  for parsing  via assembly.  You have to set  a lot of information  manually in it,  but then  then what it does  and it's actually  it's quite short.  I mean,  50 lines of code.  Okay?  So, it's quite short.  You know what?  I'm going to  change the font  and I'm going to quickly  change the font  and my VM  because  yeah,  because  I usually use  a bigger font  for  streaming.  Okay.  Now.  So, let's  get back to  checking what does it do.  It has a main  loop.  It basically reads  the file  into memory.  Right?  The whole file.  And then starting  at the offset which we  given and ending  at the offset which we  given,  it runs a function  called decode-assum,  which is decode-assembly.  And it takes  virtual address  as one argument  and basically  20 bytes of data.  This can be adjusted  as needed,  but 20 bytes of data  as the second argument.  And now,  it  cc is basically  a list of instructions  or actually  like the  disassembled code  and there are some other  other things here  which I won't go  into.  But it checks  if the list contains  a return  instruction.  It's called  return-oriented programming  because usually  you need  the return instruction  to be at the  end of your gadget.  If the code does not  contain a return instruction,  it's probably  not usable  in your scenario  for exploiting  using return-oriented  programming.  There are exceptions  and I will mention them later.  If it contains  DB something,  which means  one of the instructions  was not really  disassembled.  It was not  a very  certain  error thought that  an invalid instruction  cannot be disassembled.  I just continue  because I don't care  about gadgets  which contain  illegal instructions.  And then I check  if it's unique,  like the gadget  which I found  is it unique?  Did I find it  ready?  If not, then  keep it.  And then I just  printed out  as in print each  instruction  and the offset  basically  of it.  In the text form,  I'll show you,  I'll run it  in a second.  I'll show you how it works.  So the question is  what does the  code as in  function do?  And there is no  magic here.  It just  runs  with this  term  free disassembler  and gets a list  of instructions.  Again, we are  disassembling only  20 bytes  consecutive  20 bytes from the  file.  Like, first 20 bytes  second,  not true.  20 bytes starting  from offset 0,  starting from offset 1,  offset 2, offset 3.  And by offset,  I mean  offset of a text  sections  because we are usually  focusing on a text  section only.  Or any other  executable section,  it doesn't have to  be a text section.  And then for each  instruction,  we basically,  I just  want some  stuff.  And if I find a  red instruction, I  just stop where  because red is always  the last  instruction and  return it.  And that's it.  That's everything you  need to have in a gadget  finder.  I like my gadget  finder because it's  actually  adjustable as in.  If there is some  crazy heart  task on the CTF,  and I cannot find  proper gadgets  in the libraries I  have in memory,  I can just tweak  it a little and  I can just look for  maybe some other  variants because, you  know, the rope  instruction, for example,  could be represented by  an assembly for  something else.  What it does, it  gets the address  from a return address  from the stack  and then jumps  to it.  So we could also  do, like, pop  Pax in 32 bits  and jump Pax.  This is an  exact equivalent  of the right  instruction, except  for what it actually  destroys the Eax  registers.  So yeah, if  it's needed, I  could actually also  add this to my  code and look for  these kinds of  instructions, and I  sometimes do it.  Now, let me show  you how it actually  works.  I'm going to disassemble  the anti-DLL file.  Now, verse one more  important thing to say  about returning  into programming.  You do need the  address in memory of  some executable part  of memory which you  actually have.  That's not the case  for blind, where you  don't need to have  that piece of memory  for blind drop.  You do need  just to know where  is it in memory.  Now, you know, ASLR  as an  address space layout  randomization, as in  randomizing the place  where the  library is placed  in memory.  It could be placed  here, it could be  placed here, you  know, the address space  is big, especially  on 64-bit.  That's one problem.  And usually, before  you even get to  exploiting, you do need  to get a leak of the  address.  I'm assuming that you're  already on the stage  where, well, you do have  the address.  For example, of  anti-DLL or  Lipsi or the main  binary.  So, this is the  anti-DLL, and what I need  to know to actually  run my app.  It's  the name of executable  and the file offset  start.  I actually read it  from the p file.  I started coding  the new version of this  tool, but I  finished it.  And it does read it  from the file.  So, what I need to do is  I need to jump  to the text section, and  here, where is this  offset in the file?  It's just  400.  So, I'm going to  put 400 here, and now  I'm going to  control S again and  jump to the next section  and the next section is  actually also executable.  So, there might be some  stuff which is, you can see  here, it's executable.  There might be some stuff  which I could use  as a gadget as well, but  I'm going to ignore it  for now.  Unless I'm really  pressed for gadgets, I  cannot find the gadgets I  need.  I just take with a text  section, like the main  construction.  I'm going to backtrack  just to the boundary of the  text, and see a  dot offset of the file.  Do I have this, this part  and this part is  actually at this.  Is it a correct file  offset?  I don't think this is a  correct file offset.  This is a correct file  offset.  So, it's 10 dB9 F.  I'm going to note it  down here.  10 dB9 F.  Okay, and now I need to  basically tell it where  does the this, like this  file offset start at what  address does it start?  Because the way it  calculates the  address later is just  adds the file offset to  this.  So, I need to tell it  where in memory is  basically this section.  So, I just copy this  address.  Yeah.  But I need to subtract  the, oh, 400.  Again, it's these three  lines.  It's actually something  which all tools or  decent tools do for you.  You don't have to worry  about it.  I just do it manually  because I don't  care.  And now I need to set the  mode.  This is 64-bit code.  You can see that there  are like a lot of 64-bit  registers, right?  So, I'm going to leave it  as this.  And I can run it.  I'm going to minimize this.  Open a console.  And I'm going to do,  first I need to switch to a  Python version where I  have, where I have,  I think I have,  where I have, sorry,  but this is a similar  library installed.  I don't have it on.  On all versions.  So, I think this was the  Python which actually has it.  And I'm going to run it.  And it's going to, yeah,  it's going to output out of  stuff.  So, I'm going to save it to a  file.  ntdll.drop.  I'll let it run.  I look quickly on the  questions and get back to it  in a second.  It usually takes about, I don't  know, depending on the size of  the library actually from  anything between 10 seconds  to a couple of minutes.  And you know, the longer  it runs, the better.  Because it means you will have  more gadgets to choose from.  However, any questions,  there are no questions.  So, I'm going to actually just  open the file.  If you have, again,  if you have any questions,  ping this guy on IRC chat  or on the YouTube chat.  And he will, he will let me  know about more questions,  basically.  So, how does the output  look like?  It looks like this, basically.  So, the first gadgets are  obviously rather short.  It's just where it  turns instruction.  This is where it turns  instruction.  There's also where it turns  F instruction, which is  return.  But, you know, normally  return only has  RIP or IP, right?  Which is the instruction  pointer.  But the F version also has  is returned far, like  returned to a different  segment.  And while there are no  segments on 64-bit,  that is not fully true.  You could actually use this  instruction to change  modes, like switch from  64-bit to 32-bit mode,  though return F  wouldn't work, where I think  you have to have a prefix  there.  But, you could totally use  it to switch from the  32-bit mode to 64-bit mode.  Sorry.  Yeah.  So, basically in the  red F after IP, you have also  a segment selector, which is  usually like 16-bits only.  But what doesn't matter now?  The one where a lot of  weird instructions like this one,  right?  I'm terribly sorry about what  I'm still still experimenting on  how zooming works with  Bristol.  Anyway, I just discovered  today by accident that I can  zoom in.  This means that actually  return and then add to ESP  with value.  This is useful in the STD call  calling convention.  You stand the windows.  Well, maybe not with a huge  value like this.  This is probably some artifact  as in a set of bytes in  memory, which don't really  aren't really a red  instruction, are part of  some other instruction.  But you can interpret them  as a red instruction  and something else.  So, yeah, you basically  want to stay away from  anything which is followed  with a rather huge value  because this messes up your  stack a lot.  You don't want it.  So, by messes up the stack,  I obviously mean it messes  the stack point to register.  Okay, so now having this list  and as you can see it finished,  so I'm going to press F2  to reload it.  And I'm going to open my  pound base.  My pound base is actually  something where I do,  yeah, as you know, this is my  base code.  Something like, I think it's  called pound tools,  it's short.  And this is the reason  by me, it's something I use  on the CTFs.  You see me using it probably  if you are watching my  live stream for some time now.  And the way I go about  Robbs is, I usually remove  this and I create a function  like give you up.  It's a pretty standard name.  And let's assume that I'm  writing a function  a RobChain.  You call a RobExplain  a RobChain usually.  For somebody else, it's quite  common on like when we play  with the Dragon Sector  of that.  For example, Euro,  Mateusz Jürczyk does the  full like finding a bug  and exploitation until he has  he can do the RobChain  and then he asks me like,  do the RobChain for me.  So we'll have a challenge  finish earlier.  So I just write this code  and hand it to him and it  just creates the RobChain.  So I'm going to show you my  how I approach creating  Rob's.  Let's assume that the thing  I need from our person is  the address of the  NTDLL library, which is  yeah, NTDLL in this case.  And this is the address  where NTDLL is placed  in memory.  Let's go back and  NTDLL base.  Okay.  And now the idea is  here to return something  which is a RobChain.  Let's call it Rob.  Now, in most cases for me,  a Rob is actually a list  and but I need to return a  string, right?  Because you place on the  stack, this is what you  return here is placed on the  stack of the process.  And then the process  basically goes does  return to on it, like  return on the first thing  on it, and it returns to  the address, which is  where.  And again, where is a gadget  which has another return  which returns to the next  we can next in the next thing  was where it's called  a RobChain.  I'm going to explain  to the better in a second.  So yes, usually I have a  list where for I do  concatenate, this is  Python 2 by the way.  So I concatenate the list  and I have a couple of  really important  functions here.  And this is  amid a byte,  amid a word,  amid a D word,  and amid a  Q word or giant word,  whatever you want to call it,  a 64-bit word, basically.  Like a 64-bit  unsigned integer, right?  And I'm going to use this  function.  It's just, you know,  the standard  struct dot pack  with Q as in  Q word.  So I give it a  value and it ambits  8 bytes, which are  little andian encoded,  this means little  andian encoded 64-bit  unsigned value, the  capital Q means  unsigned integer 64-bit.  And this is  the base of most  of my exploits.  Now, I don't really  like writing  the RobChain  in one function.  I usually do it  at a different way.  First, I take  the bottom gadgets,  which I need,  and create separate  functions from them.  For example,  the, I had usually a note  here saying,  what's the windows  convention?  But if I remember correctly,  please correct me  if I wrong,  the windows coding  convention is  rdx, rcx,  rdx, r8, r9.  I guess I'm going,  I'm going to check it.  It's different on Linux,  obviously,  it's even easier  because you have  all the arguments  that go to a function  on the stack.  You don't need to pass them  through the registers,  like in a fast call  convention on 64,  but you do have to  do it.  It's also different on  Linux.  Now, again,  where is my perfect  re-key  calling  convention?  Okay.  And yeah,  this one.  So,  blah blah blah.  Yeah.  rcx,  rdx,  r8,  r9.  Exactly, as I said.  A better document  to actually look  up the calling convention  is Agner,  fog,  calling conventions.  This guy is awesome,  by the way.  I really like  what he publishes  in terms of these  really useful tables  about low-level stuff.  And his calling  convention  PDF is, like,  super useful.  And you can find  this stuff here.  Where is the  nice table  on page 10?  Where for each  different  operating system,  like,  32-bit or 64-bit,  it tells you  where the  parameters go, right?  And yeah, they go here  on Windows  and they go here  on Linux.  And whatever  doesn't fit here  goes on the stack.  So,  but the stack layout  on Windows is a little  different,  but let's not go  over now.  You basically just  check how  the calling convention  works on Windows.  Okay.  So, yeah,  I just noted down  the calling convention.  And what I usually need  is I need basic gadgets  to be able to set these  registers.  And please assume  that during  return-oriented programming,  you assume that you  have control of a stack.  You have, like,  RSP pointing to a buffer,  which you control.  Right?  So, this is a buffer,  which you control.  And you can write stuff  here.  So, the way you usually  fill these registers is  you, as the first item,  so here, you put  a gadget, which does  two things.  It does, for example,  pop  PRP ECX.  Sorry, RCX.  It could be ECX, obviously,  if your,  if you don't care  about the upper bits  and you can set them  to zero,  and then red.  And what it actually does  is it's going to read  the next variable  and put it  inside the ECX register.  Right?  It's going to pop  the next variable  from the stack  and put it inside the RCX  register.  And then it's going to take  the next address  and return to it.  So, you're going to have  this point  to another gadget  in memory, which, again,  does something,  does something,  and does,  does a red,  which, again,  will get some data  from the stack,  put it in some registers,  let's say,  and then,  and then,  yeah, jump to yet  another gadget.  This is the idea  that you find these gadgets  in memory.  So, yeah.  So, first what I do  is I find gadgets  which feel this basic  register.  So,  well, I have to open my list  again,  and I'm going to look  Ctrl-F  to,  let me,  maybe move it a little here.  I'm going to look  for pop RCX.  And,  and then,  this is the first gadget  which comes,  but it's,  it's not good.  First is, like,  return F.  I could use it,  but I prefer something  without this F here.  So, it's easier.  So, I don't have  to,  I put the,  the segment,  where,  now, this is some weird  memory,  the referencing,  and,  if RBX is the wrong  value,  then it will actually  crash my program.  I don't really like it,  and this is also,  destroying my  RBL,  or actually,  RCX,  sorry,  R-A-X,  obviously,  register.  So, I don't really like  this gadget.  I'm going to look further  for something  which ideally  consists only of  pop RCX  and Vendred.  So, now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  now,  I'm going to look further, no, no, no, yeah, perfect.  This is exactly what I was looking for.  It's like one purpose on the gadget.  So now I copy this.  And I create a new function, which I call set rcx.  And it takes the value, the new value of rcx register.  I usually keep this just as a reference as a comment here.  And now what I do is I do, like, seven of this.  I basically return a concatenated list.  So it's basically a string.  And now, first of all, I need to, I'm going to use the dq here,  which I mentioned, which I met eight byte, basically a 64-bit value.  And I want to return to this address.  Now, there's one more important thing.  Due to ASLR, the anti-DLL base is quite important here.  So what I'm going to do is I'm going to basically take this anti-DLL.  I'm going to create a new value, let's go to anti-DLL.  I'm going to be known at this point.  And sorry, it will be equal to, I'm going to set it here to anti-DLL base,  but minus the beginning of the base of anti-DLL was my either.  So I can check it actually.  So if I scroll up, the base is image base here.  I'm going to copy this value.  Perfect.  Yeah, because with each gadget, I'm going to add this value,  this huge image base here.  Anyway, so that's why I need to, like, subtract it here.  And now, in each case, I can do anti-DLL plus  and the address of the gadget, this is the address of the gadget,  the address of this instruction, right?  And now, this is the return address, which basically brings me  to this code, brings the CPU to this code.  And now, it starts executing.  And first of all, it's going to look on the stack for the RCX instructions.  I need to put the RCX value here.  Actually, since it's a string, I'm going to have to convert it  to this value.  And then it's going to look for a return address.  Now, I do not put the return address here.  This is something that the next instruction will handle.  And now, I do the same, basically, for RDX.  I'm going to look for pop RDX.  If I'm lucky, it will be there.  This is a decent gadget.  It kind of spoils my AL register.  But as be honest, on Windows usually,  don't need the AL register.  But maybe there's a better one.  So I'm going to look for it.  Oh, this is a really nice gadget, actually.  If you look at it, it allows me to set something from here.  It allows me to set most of the registers.  And yeah, I'm totally going to create a function by store on it.  So it's quite expensive.  Because even if I want to set only R11 or R9,  I have to put all these values on this stack.  But on the other hand, it's quite useful.  And there are a lot of functions on Windows,  which use a lot of parameters.  But what being said, I guess, like R10, R11 and Rax  are not going to be used.  Yet, let's take it.  Set most registers, Rax, Rdx, Rcx, R8, R9, R10, R11.  And I'm actually going to do default values here,  so that as a user, I don't have to put all these.  So now I'm going to again copy paste it.  As you can see, I'm going to use part only part of the gadget,  which is undelays, but that doesn't matter, right?  I mean, I can jump into any part of that gadget,  and that's still fine.  And I'm going to do exactly the same thing as in first.  I'm going to create this factor.  Now, the key return here, make the CPU return here.  And now I need to put all these things on the stack  as an admit them in the byte stream and the rope chain.  So, I mean, there is no magic here, right?  DQ, Rcx, DQ, R8, DQ, R9, DQ, R10, and DQ, R11.  And let's assume that's actually all the things,  all the registers I need for the calling convention.  And I'm going to do a rather funny thing.  I'm going to move this backward just so I have  calling convention important registers.  And I would like them to have the same order as is here.  So, I'm going to move this here.  So, it's Rcx, Rdx, R8, R9.  Okay, so now I can call set most and just put four values  and these four values will be put in the correct registers.  And the orders obviously kept here  according to these instructions.  So, having these basic gadgets, which set the registers,  is the first step I usually do.  Now, usually what you need in a rope exploit  is to be able to place a string in memory.  So, the next thing I do, I'm going to create a poke function.  Poke, if you've been programming in 8-bit basic,  you know, that poke is a function that basically takes an address  and takes the byte and pokes like puts that byte inside  on the address, which you tell it to.  So, yeah, so that's why I call it poke.  Now, you know, old habits die hard.  Actually, 8-bit basic was the first programming language  that I learned and Vado was 27 years ago.  Yeah, so really old habits.  So, address and then maybe not byte, maybe V.  I'm going to decide what V is in a second.  Now, I need to look for a gadget, which actually writes  into memory, into a location specified by one registers.  One register and it puts a value specified  by another register.  So, that's obviously, when we look for stuff,  I'm going to use regular expression search  because that's like a list of from Total Commander  actually has this option.  You couldn't use Grap, Grap, of course,  has this option as well.  So, what I do is I look for Move,  and then I'm going to use these, you know,  square brackets, right?  Now, I think I can actually do this, yeah, perfect.  And, but I need to escape it.  And then there's a register, and then I'm closing this,  and then there's another register.  That's obviously in regular expression represent anything.  Now, I'm going to look for it, whoops,  this is not how you unzoom something.  Let me do that again, where did I, here we are.  The file actually contains text megabytes  of, of, of, of course, if you're wondering.  Okay, so it found something like this.  Put, like, the address is R, C, X, and R, A, D.  It actually, the D here means it puts a four-byte value.  I, ideally, I would like an eight-byte value.  So, I'm going to look again.  No, no, no, no, no.  This is probably the same, got it, like, on the same address.  This is a little better.  It's a 64-bit value, as you can see,  both registers, like, this register is 64-bit,  so it means it writes a 64-bit value somewhere.  But, again, this messes up my stack,  and I don't like it, so I'm going to keep looking.  I'm just on that, you know, second percent of my file,  I have a lot of options, it seems.  No, these are, these would be good,  but it's too high in before the return,  too far from the return.  No.  Okay, so usually what I would do on VCTF,  I wouldn't press F3 like that.  I would take my console, and I would use Grap.  I actually have Grap on Windows,  due to Gnu, Win32 toolkit.  And I can do something like this.  I can look for the exact same thing,  which I just said, which is move.  Van, I need to escape this, R to dots, space,  and Van R dots inside the NTDLL.  The drop, and it doesn't like me for some reason.  All right, because on Windows you cannot use  the single quotes, you have to use the double quotes.  It does find a lot of stuff,  but the way you use it normally,  is you give another argument, which is a capital A2,  which means display two lines after this.  And what it does, it does something like this.  But now what I do is I pipe it to another Grap,  and I want to display two lines before,  but what I grab for is actually the return address.  And now what it finds,  it finds all the instructions,  which will have two lines in this case,  but I'm going to trim it down to one line.  And yeah, and it displays all the gadgets,  which have this instruction,  and it then you know, displayed another line,  and then it looked in these two lines  for the return address,  for sorry for the return instruction,  and displayed the line above,  which means it actually displayed only the lines,  which contain the move into a 64-bit address,  a 64-bit value, exactly what I was looking for.  I'm going to just use one of these gadgets,  for example, this one,  because I already have it, my mouse cursor on it.  So I'm going to fill my poke instruction,  and I'm going to reuse the functions,  which I already created.  So I'm not going to emit again using the queue of the visvings.  I'm just going to do return.  And due to the way I actually construct this,  by using this funny, like a joint list of strings,  I can just like do set most here.  And what I need to set,  I need to set the rcx to the address.  I'm going to type rcx equals address,  because that's how, well, default,  what would default values allow me to do,  and I'm going to set the racks to v.  And what's it?  I have already my poke,  well, not really, I have my poke parameters set,  but now I need to put this address on the stack,  so it actually returns here.  So I'm going to do the queue, this address,  and obviously I do need to ntdll.  And I don't know if I didn't forget the ntdl here,  obviously I did, so I'm going to add it here as well.  Okay, perfect.  So now I have my poke instruction.  Now the next thing I like to do  is actually to create a poke string constructions.  I'm going to do the f poke string, like poke str,  and another string, right?  And first of all, what I need to do  is I need to make sure that the string length  is divisible by eight,  because I need values which are,  we know, well, I'm going to use a 64-bit register  to put the 64-bit value somewhere,  and I'm going to put 64-bit parts of a string,  somewhere on the end memory, like whatever, right?  So I need to make sure that the string is actually,  actually is the size of it, is the variable by eight.  So while length of a string is divided by eight,  it's not zero, it's not divided by eight,  then just add a null byte at the end.  So obviously, there is a faster way to do it  without using a loop, but I mean, I don't care.  I'm going to run this code probably once  to just generate the rope chain, and that's it,  and maybe a couple of times,  so it doesn't have to be fast.  Having this done, I'm going to do a similar way  for I and range from zero to length of a string,  skipping every eight, an eight byte trunks,  take the string, and basically,  somewhere to the row is a list.  I'm going to return, obviously, a joint list here,  and I'm going to append a poke on the address  of address plus i, because i is first zero,  then eight, then 16, and then, however,  the string is long, obviously.  And what I'm going to put here is I'm going to put,  you know, poke actually expects me  to have an integer value here,  but I have another convenience function, which is called  airqueer, which is actually take a string,  like this string, grab a first eight byte  and convert it to an integer.  So it's like a opposite of what DQ does.  It uses unpack instead of pack, just that.  So I'm going to use airqueer string from i to i plus eight,  it's going to cut of eight bytes of a chunk, and that's it.  And this is, this function is going to,  is going to pull a string somewhere in memory.  Now, once I have this, now I probably want to do something with it.  And what do I want to do with it?  On Linux, you usually want to run xxve,  or you want to put in memory of a structure  that allows you to run xxve, on Linux,  on Windows, you could do our stuff,  you could either go for create process,  or sometimes, there's a nicer trick,  which is related to a function, which is called load library.  Now, I actually did not disassemble,  I did not assume that I have load library here at all,  but I'm going to check if I have load library exported here,  load library, okay.  No, I thought the function is called a little different,  an NTDL, whatever, I'm going to assume,  just for the sake of discussion,  just for the sake of showing this to you that,  I also have the address of kernel 32,  I'm going to disassemble kernel 42 on my second monitor.  And so, so far, I'm going just to say that I have kernel 32 base address as well.  And this doesn't matter, it's just like a simple trick,  I want to show you, you know, countless way to actually do it.  Yeah.  And kernel 42 is going to be called kernel 42 base minus,  and it's already disassembled, so let's just look here,  and I'm going to go at the beginning of the file.  So, yeah.  The base address is the same image base basically,  so I'm going to do this.  And obviously, I need to, I don't know if I need to,  but I always like to create these global variables here anyway.  Now I'm going to look basically for the load library A function,  A being for ANSI, which means non-Averwise,  you know, the other option is W, which means it's a white character  and coded in UTF16 or older versions of Windows,  but you see as free.  It doesn't like me for some reason.  I know the function is here, but it's for some reason  it's just called like a load library stub,  because you know, in Windows 7, part of kernel 32  gets split into something called kernel base,  service library is probably in kernel base.  Now it's even funnier, it's in these weird named library.  So, but what does the matter at all?  I can use this address, jump here,  and this will jump me into load library.  Now, what does load library do?  Load library actually loads a DLL.  How is that helpful if you're a remote attacker?  I'll show you in a second.  What I need now is I just need to have this like load library  and then we take a, you know, a string, right?  And then what's it actually?  Yeah.  So, how do we go about it?  We return again the same construct I've been using so far.  First, we need to set the arguments,  and the only argument is the string,  but we need to put the string in memory.  So, we use the poke string function  which I created earlier and address.  Now, the address is something like,  where do we put it in memory?  Where can we put a string in memory?  And this is rather easy because you just take,  like for example, in kernel 32,  you jump into the data section, which is here.  What's the data, I'm saying the data section  because it's the only section which is actually rightable  and we need a piece of memory  which is probably unused and probably rightable.  I'm going to now jump at the end of this section.  So, I'm going to go to p data and backtrace.  Now, as you can see, there's a huge space  between these two sections, right?  The question is, what is in that space, right?  Because in memory, you can have the memory split  into pages.  Now, each page is actually,  well, that's not fully true,  but usually each page is four kilobytes, right?  So, four kilobytes is actually one, oh, oh, oh,  in hexadecimal.  So, yeah, there is like one page here  starting at a five, oh, oh, oh.  And between this address here  and between this address,  we're still a couple of bytes left.  And worse, it's not used by the library at all.  And since it's not used,  we can actually use this address as, yeah,  we can use this address as a place  where we can store our strings.  Or even better, I'm going to just use like a for f,  oh, oh, we have ideally like 256 bytes here  where we can store anything.  For example, the strings, I'm just going to use that.  So, I'm going again to copy this.  Let me...  And this was, what was this library which I was looking,  not, it was kernel of 32.  So, I need to use kernel of 32 plus this address.  Again, I said that I'm going to use f, oh, oh.  And I'm going to poke a string bar  and the string is actually going to be  the argument of load library.  And now what I need to do is I need to actually  set the registers, the first register  of the calling convention, which again is RCX.  They have a set RCX function, yes, I do.  So, I'm going to call this function now.  And remember that each of these functions  actually return a string.  So I can just concatenate these strings.  So it looks like I'm actually programming  like writing a program right now, calling functions normally.  But that's not true, the functions are returning strings.  But it doesn't matter for me because I look at it  as a set of functions, which are called one after the other.  And that's the proper way to look at it.  And I want to put here, well, this exact address, right?  This is where my string is going to be.  And then I just need to jump into load library,  which again is like kernel 32 plus or X and this address.  And now I have a Python function created,  which actually does what does a lot of complicated stuff.  It uses like several gadgets,  which I defined or talked about today.  But in Vienton, I create my RobChain.  My RobChain is going to be load library.  And this is the trick.  This is my, let's assume this is my like IP address  and like get value code in PL.  And it's actually a network name  and there's going to be an like evil DLL there.  Because load library actually supports loading files  over Samba, which is in the Microsoft's file,  like network file protocol.  So I can load a library, which is lying on my server,  assuming that I have a Samba server  and that it doesn't need authentication to get into.  Which I can obviously controlling the server,  I can configure it in this way.  And once it's loaded, the load library actually executes.  Well, first of all, it executes the TLS,  callbacks if I remember correctly,  but that's not important.  What's important is executes actually the DLL main  inside the library.  So what it does is going to fetch my back door  from my server, which is a nicely compiled C file  into a DLL file and it's going to run it.  And this is my whole final RobChain.  And what I get at the end is I'm going to get a string.  So let's just grab the string.  I'm going to put some random addresses here  so we can see how it's generated.  Now that's way too much, sorry.  And I'm going to encode it hex  so we can actually see it in hexadecimal,  Python, PeronBase, yeah.  And this is the RobChain in the end.  Okay.  So we can, I guess we could go through  this RobChain, what does it do again?  Now, like basically,  slowly, instead I'm going to cheat a little today  and I'm going to do like add a several prints  and the prints actually should be at the end  of each function, so I'm going to do like this.  And I'm going to run it again  and it will show us the full RobChain basically.  Okay.  And now this actually already does what I wanted to do.  So print, poke string and the address and the string.  Now this one doesn't do, so let's get to this  or turn okay, print, poke.  We, I'm going to answer the questions in a second.  Again, same story here, okay, equals.  Okay.  Rcx and the parameter and this is the last one.  Set mouse and then I'm going to like just print  the registers, Rdx.  Rcx, right, the values are obviously not going  to be hexadecimal, but I don't care too much.  Yeah, and now if I run it, this is my whole RobChain  in the order which it gets executed.  As in it sets some registers, when does a poke  sets some more register, does a poke,  sets more registers, does a poke.  And this is actually writing the string into memory.  Yeah, up until here.  And this is actually the function  which, this function is actually responsible  for all of these which is here.  When it says the Rcx, the same address as you can see here.  This is the string which was put in memory.  And then when we end what we do is actually  we do load library and that's the whole RobChain  which you can see here.  So now I just like give basically the string  or actually I give this module, the python module  to whoever I'm working with.  And I tell him just run, give me Rob from this  and it will give you a nice thing  which you put on the stack and it does the exploit.  Now, due to the way I actually structure this  in a way which I showed you as in it actually,  I actually create for each gadget a function  and then create larger pieces like poke  and larger, still larger, higher level pieces  like poke string and load library.  Due to the way I do it, it's really easy not to make any mistakes.  It's really easy to, so it basically just works.  Usually it works the first time.  As in I gave it to somebody, the person runs it  and bam, we got a show.  So if I were to be doing everything like each gadget  as a separate line in this library,  all the gadgets which I used here,  several gadgets with quite a lot of arguments,  it's quite easy to get it wrong.  That's why I would actually,  I prefer to use this way of building  higher level blocks and higher level blocks  and finally just going for the exploit.  So yeah, that's the best tip I can give you  about return oriented programming.  It's obviously not the full extent of Rob,  but it should get you started.  Now one thing about this method,  I showed you that you can use load library right  and it fetches a DLL from Merimode Server.  Now, sadly I don't have a test program  which I could show you about it works,  maybe early next time if you like or something.  On CTFs, usually the application  which you're exploiting on Windows  is running in something called upJail,  like application jail or whatever is that called  now or upJail lunch or something like that.  And this method doesn't work there.  You couldn't go for load library,  you would have to go probably for some create process  and like or system.  Just if you have MSCRT library like the Microsoft C library  when you can go for system and run whatever commands there,  but you couldn't load a DLL of the server which is,  which is sad, but that's where it is on CTFs.  Now on Linux, there is a similar trick,  it's actually called the magic gadget.  And the magic gadget is do I have a C library?  And we're going to find a quickly a C library.  I have somewhere here on my disk from some CTF ideally.  Okay, here's our C library, so I'm going to open it.  I hope it's a C library for bit.  Yeah, and the magic gadget is basically,  you just use one Rob gadget and if you're lucky,  you're going to get a shell and not a remote shell  but still a shell.  You basically, it boils down to going to system  and inside the system versus the do system  and inside here versus actually, you know,  I'll be setting up of the system,  but at the end versus some exec V somewhere here.  So yeah, perfect.  Now let's look for the exec V which I mentioned.  I'm going to just decompile it to save some time.  Where is the exec V?  Yes, so here's a clone.  Is this what I was looking for?  Let's see.  Yeah, okay, here.  Here's the, basically what this block does, right?  It puts SH and dash C and the command for system.  This is how system works.  It calls bash dash C and the inventors exec V.  Now, if you jump here or here,  there is a really high probability  that it will just run bin SH without any other paramethrs  and you'll just get a shell.  And that's it.  You just jump here, right, with Rob.  Like first return address you give it,  you give this address and you have a shell.  If this doesn't work and sometimes doesn't work,  try like jumping different addresses here,  like in between, sometimes it starts working,  sometimes it doesn't.  If it doesn't work,  when you just go to the string to be in a stage  and do reverse look up and as you can see,  this string is used in several places.  One of them is, for example, like PROC Open or POPen,  you can jump there and basically see if you don't,  wouldn't have any luck here, for example,  could you jump here to this line?  And maybe this will actually allow you to get a shell.  If this doesn't work again,  it basically depends on how the compiler  for a given C library structure is the code.  But if you look around all these functions  where it's quite a high probability  that you will find a place,  but you jump there and you have a magic gadget,  you have a shell and that's it.  So do remember about this trick.  It's really useful on CTFs.  It doesn't always work obviously.  So before I get to the questions, one more thing.  If you actually go to my blog,  I think I have a write up on Return Orient.  Yeah, there's like in my, oh, 2009 post  called Return Oriented Exploiting  and I'll give you a link on both channels.  And you can read it.  It's basically what I've told you today  versus also some nice, well, same in high graphs,  which might make it easier for you to understand  if you didn't get what I'm talking about today.  Just read through it.  There are other tutorials on Return Oriented Programming as well.  So take a look at that.  One more thing to remember, which is,  I guess it's more true if you haven't really useful  is that Return Oriented Programming  is actually Touring Complete.  What that means is that you can actually  have conditional jumps in Return Oriented Programming  and you can have loops which jump backward.  And actually like, I think two years ago  for a city, if I created a challenge to dress a crack me,  which actually was just a shell coat of rope.  You like the programmer's nothing  when else then just copy this on the stack  and return the rope.  And then the rope chain was executing  what was a virtual machine  and implementation of virtual machine,  which actually the crack me was implemented  in the bytecode for what the virtual machine would was,  again, implemented in a rope chain.  I have that crack me somewhere  like around everyone interested  in ping me, I'll send you it.  So you can do tricks like that in rope as well.  Okay, now let's go to the questions  and let's round it up for today.  Now, the address is going to be spotting  in the address contains null bytes.  Won't this cause the program to stop reading?  This is an excellent question  because it's a common misconception.  The null bytes are important only  if you are reading using the F function,  which is, which was created to read,  to operate on ASCII strings, ASCII Z strings,  which means like, you know, C strings,  strings which have a null terminator at the end.  And this is like scan F,  Gets or F Gets,  but on CTFs usually what you deal with  is read or rest like receive, right?  And neither of these functions operate on strings,  they both operate on bytes,  which means you don't care about null bytes.  Null bytes are not a problem for you, they just work.  And usually when you create a rope,  you don't care about null bytes.  Most of the stuff you exploit are not ASCII Z overflows,  are just byte overflows.  So sometimes these questions valid,  but you have to care about the null bytes  because we just will stop you from like reading stuff.  Other times if it's a read or a receive function,  you just don't care about them  because they will just work.  Now, one random, total random tip is that  even if you have like F Gets,  which actually, F Gets actually does care about the null byte  and reads until the null byte or does it,  maybe I'm lying, now actually check.  I know that F Gets reads until the end of the line,  but maybe the reads through the null bytes as well.  I would have to check it.  For the sake of the discussion,  let's assume that you have,  I don't know, some string copy,  which actually does care about the null byte,  or actually some variant of F Gets,  which actually does care about the null byte.  Do keep in mind that F Gets actually calls read in the end  and read, actually reads a whole block at the same time.  Even if F Gets you try to read one byte,  the read underneath will still attempt to read one kilobyte  or a couple of kilobytes of data  depending on the implementation  and put it somewhere in the buffer in memory.  And if you're lucky,  you can basically get the address of that buffer and jumper  and like stack pivot,  which is something I didn't talk about today.  But yeah, there is, even if it didn't read  into the destination buffer,  everything, it did place it somewhere in memory  unless it's not a buffer or anything like that.  Cool.  Next question, can't larger pages be requested  with virtual alloc?  That's correct.  That's why I said that pages are usually four kilobytes,  larger pages like one megabyte or two megabyte  or like 16 megabyte or one gigabyte  depending on the operating system  and which mode you are in  and what set of page tables you're using.  Yeah, these kind of pages can be requested  and there sometimes is for as well.  But usually you just operate on four kilobyte pages.  Can you show example, which does something?  So unfortunately not today,  since I guess we're short on time right now,  I don't have an English video  with rhetorical programming.  I can try to show you maybe next time if you're interested.  Like let me know in the comments  otherwise video if you're interested  in seeing actually how this program,  which I created, this exploit,  which I created today working  because I can create and a demo program for this  but it actually would be exploitable  but maybe not today.  As it's already able to write.  But let me know if you're interested in seeing it.  I can make it ready for the next stream.  Can you load an exo with a load library?  Yeah, basically yes.  It's, I think you can.  I'm not sure if main is when executed  on the same way as the DLL main is executed  but what doesn't matter in the end  because you can always create a DLL file  which has a DLL main file  which is basically the same thing  which like the main function or wind main  in an executable.  So it doesn't really matter  but it's a dynamic library.  There's still a function which will be called  as soon as the DLL is loaded  where you can place your code  which does some like backduring and so on.  Okay, I guess that's it for questions today.  Now there won't be any stream next week.  I apologize for that  but there's confidence drag on sector CTF  and also I have some other stuff on that week  where I just won't be able to make a stream.  So there will be a stream into weeks obviously.  So that's it.  Thank you for being here today.  Thank you to disconnected who actually  was the moderator today and helped me a lot with it.  I will upload my PwnBase and RobG scripts  to get help, to make it help  where is the best stream in the N directory bar.  So you can take a look what I coded today  and see you in two weeks.  So maybe have any questions when let me know  and stay tuned for the mission  which is just after what we'll show  just after I finish talking basically.  So again, thank you to disconnected  and thank you to all of you for being here.  If you like the stream then let your friends know  the more the merrier.  So that's it, happy hiking.  See you, bye bye and see you in two weeks.
